Which DevOps tools should I use?
- You may be wondering how we've gotten this far into our course on DevOps without talking about tools. - Kubernetes, Terraform, Ansible, Puppet, Chef, GitHub. - Okay, exactly, exactly. - Jenkins, Docker, Linux, Amazon, Graphite, Artifactory. - Okay, okay, Ernest, take it easy. There's a reason we've held off talking about tools until now. One of the earliest pieces of DevOps Wisdom was coined by Alex Honor, an early DevOps consultant and creator of the Runbook Automation tool, Rundeck. The phrase is this, "People over process over tools." In short, it recommends identifying who is responsible for a job function first, and making sure that they have the skills and support they need. Then, defining the process that needs to happen around them and their work, and then only after all that, selecting and implementing the tools to perform that process, choosing the one that best fits your own needs. - It seems somewhat obvious, but technical workers and sometimes overzealous managers under the sway of a tech vendor salesperson are awfully tempted to do the reverse, focusing on tools first, then processes, and then maybe, if they get to it, the people. But there is no such thing as the best tool. There's only the best tool for you and your specific situation. - That's right, and people doesn't mean just you. Remember that DevOps is sharing. How does the tool make everyone collaborate better? - That's right, the best tools are ones that all the participants in the value stream can use effectively. - We do want to give you some advice on how to choose tools, though. The first and best guidance we can give is the KISS principle, which is pretty well known both in the US military and in software development. - Keep it super secret? - No, it stands for keep it simple, stupid. - Good call. While tools are great and help you do things, in tech, it's really easy to get too many tools. Every single tool you use has to be learned, implemented, upgraded, secured, and integrated with other tools. Yeah, complexity has become a major problem in tech. Here's an example of just a part of the cloud native computing foundation's landscape diagram. Basically, all the pieces you can add in or swap out of Kubernetes. - I'll be honest, after DevOps began, I saw a lot of companies getting much better as they put together good, coherent, continuous delivery, observability, and infrastructure as code implementations. In recent years, though, I've been seeing the average quality of those implementations go down, and increased complexity is one of the major causes. It's really easy to download and install a giant suite of technical tools nowadays, but every time you do, you put a giant weight around your neck that'll hold you back from moving quickly in the future. - Yeah, you know, Ernest, I've been seeing the same thing in cybersecurity, too many tools poorly thought out and tough to implement, causing worse outcomes. - The second thing you need to keep in mind is that you need all of your tools to integrate well and operate in a dynamic environment. - In DevOps, we frequently refer to our tools as a tool chain. Good tools don't live in isolation. You need your build tool, deploy tool, observability tool, and so on to integrate so you can compose a solution out of them easily. - A good example of this composability is the Linux command line, where all commands can have their output piped into the input of another command, allowing you to chain tools together. - And in the dynamic world of modern virtual servers, applications, and containers, you need those tools to be able to automatically adapt. - I still remember being really agitated at a security vendor that insisted I enter all my cloud servers' IP addresses into their product's dashboard. I told them, "This isn't the 1970s, the number of cloud servers and their network addresses is going to change every five minutes forever. Get me a product that has an API." - As we talk through the five pillars, we'll mention specific tools that can help, but remember, pick the tools that work for your organization and processes and promote collaboration and sharing among your people. Don't add on more tools than you need, keep it simple, and put a high priority on tools being able to integrate with others and dynamically adapt to a changing environment. - If you have your own suggestions on how to best select tools, please share them as a comment in the course Q&A section.