What is infrastructure as code?
- Welcome. Now we're going to dig into one of the more technical practices of DevOps, infrastructure as code. - Okay, but what does that mean? Well, when we say infrastructure, we mean the servers and storage and networks and all the things that form the underlying hardware layer of our systems. So back in the day, you installed and configured infrastructure manually. You built a data center, bought and installed servers, loaded an operating system like Windows or Linux on them, added other software and configuration, and finally installed software. - Every system made this way was highly individual, like machine parts before the industrial revolution. Few were actually identical and it took a lot of time and effort to make each one, and then over time as you patch and change them, forget about it, everyone turns into a special snowflake. And this means that system administration was always slow and error prone. I did that job, Unix administration the old way. It was the nineties. I was hardcore and I had to walk to work in the snow, uphill, both ways. - Okay, anyway, contrast this to code, which is what creates computer programs like your web browser, websites, computer games, finance tools, office applications, and all the rest of the wide world of software. When you create an application, you write code that is kept in a version control system that saves it and tracks changes. Then you run it through a build system and automatic tests and maybe some manual testing too. But then you end up with a single artifact that thousands of systems or end users can download, install, and run, and be running the exact same thing without someone having to come to their laptop and build it from parts for them. - Infrastructure as code then is the practice of creating code that then creates your infrastructure. But wait, how do we write code to create things in real life? Is this just fantasy? - I know, I feel I'm caught in a landslide with no escape from reality. - Well, open up your eyes, look to the skies and see virtual infrastructure. There's still the physical installation of the hardware in a data center or out in the field, but aside from plugging it in, most modern systems have a software layer that configures the underlying hardware. - This means that infrastructure is now programmable. You can write a computer program to configure a network, set up a server, attach storage, configure an operating system, install applications, and much more. - So in short, infrastructure as code, is provisioning and managing infrastructure through writing automation code instead of through manual processes. - And this aligns with the automation part of our CAMS. DevOps values of culture, automation, measurement and sharing, and the lean theory of removing waste and delay from a system. - We'll get into the technical parts of programmable infrastructure and the tools to do infrastructure provisioning and configuration management. But the biggest challenge to doing infrastructure as code successfully is changing your mindset from, I'll set it up by performing manual actions to using a development lifecycle approach. - The complexity and scale of modern systems has become huge, distributed systems, microservice architectures, cloud, containers, machine learning, all of which have components that are ephemeral, which means temporary. They come and they go. - Trying to keep up with that complexity manually, is somewhere between inefficient and impossible. - Yeah, you'll often hear the phrase cattle not pets applied to servers in the DevOps world. - That's right. Now servers are not something to be handcrafted and named and manually maintained anymore. They're a herd to be managed en masse. - Yeah, one final point about building infrastructure as code. Ops people are used to solving problems with tools and developers are used to solving problems by writing code, but you really need both approaches. As you bring both disciplines together, you have the opportunity to bring the best solution to the table.