Changing fonts with font-family
- [Instructor] In CSS, the font-family property is used to define the typeface of an element. The value is declared as a list, also known as a font stack. It contains multiple font-family options, arranged by priority from highest to lowest. The browser displays the first font in the list. If it's not installed on the user's computer, it will try the next option until it finds an available font. The font stack should include similar fallback options and always includes a generic font family as the last option. Generic font families are defined by the browser and the exact font will vary across devices and operating systems. Also, they don't refer to specific typefaces but rather, categories of fonts with similar characteristics. The available keyword values for generic font families are serif, sans-serif, and monospace, which are used as fallbacks for the corresponding category of typefaces. cursive is usually used as a fallback for script or decorative fonts. fantasy is generally used for more unconventional decorative fonts. The system-ui keyword matches to the default operating systems font, which is usually a sans-serif typeface. For example, Macs use the San Francisco font and Windows uses Segoe UI. It can also be used as the first option in a font stack to integrate the design with the look and feel of the operating system the user is viewing the website on. Although system-ui maps to the default font of the OS, you can still include specific font-family options in the font stack. There's no limit to the number of fonts that can be included in the stack, but you should define at least your preferred font followed by a generic font. One more thing to note about font-family. If the name contains spaces, numbers, or characters other than a hyphen, they should be contained in single or double quotes. Generic fonts, however, must always be unquoted. Using a font stack provides fallback options, but how do we know what fonts are available? In the past, font choices were limited since we have no way of knowing what fonts are installed on the user's computer. But there are some known fonts that are generally available on most operating systems. These are known as web-safe fonts. cssfontstack.com has a list of web-safe fonts categorized by typeface and shows the availability of the font on Windows and Macs. There's no 100% guarantee that these fonts will be available on the user's computer since they could also delete fonts from their system too, but that's why we use fallbacks. Modern Font Stacks list various font stacks that organizes typeface options by category and operating system. There are other ways to expand our font options using web fonts, which we'll discuss in an upcoming lesson.