font-weight and font-style
- [Instructor] Font families often include different fonts with varying amounts of thickness, which determines how thin or bold the characters appear. This is defined by the font weight property which uses numeric keyword values. 100 represents the lightest or thinnest font weight. The values go up in increments of 100 to a maximum of 900, which represents the darkest or thickest font. These numbers roughly correspond to commonly-used weight names like thin or extra light. These weight names are not CSS keyword values though but there are some non-numeric keyword values that can be used. Normal is equal to the numeric value of 400 and is also the default for body text. Bold is equal to 700 and is the default for headings. Not all font families will include all nine weights. If you use a value to specify a weight for which no font file exists, the typeface with the nearest weight is used. In this example, if you set your font weight to 600, it will default to the font with the 700 weight. Some font families will also include an italic style which can be specified with the font style property. There are three values, italic, oblique, and normal. An italic style is created by the type designer to not only appear slanted, but are often drawn in a more slightly cursive style and is influenced by calligraphy. An oblique style is basically a slanted version of the regular font. If there's no italic font the italic value will default to the oblique font. If there's no oblique font, then the browser will simulate the italic effect by slanting the regular font. The same is true for the oblique value, but it will try to map to an oblique font first. The normal value maps to the normal font and is usually used to remove a default italic or oblique style. Let's try this out in a CodePen example. Both of these properties are inheritable so I can add font weight bold to the header selector and all the nested elements will be bolded. The H1 looks the same because it's already bolded by default, but the default style can be changed by selecting the H1 directly. Setting the font weight to 400 will remove the default bold style. For the font style property, let's use the M selector to remove the default italic style from this element by setting it to normal. Back in the header selector, we can add the italic font style to apply this to all the nested elements. If we use the oblique value instead, it doesn't seem to change, so we can assume that there's no specific italic font in this font family. This is another example of separating content from style. For example, use the proper heading tags to create a hierarchy within the content rather than making an element bold or a specific size, then use CSS properties to add or remove these styles.