Web fonts with @font-face
- Typography is an important part of web design and in the past, the options of available fonts were limited to a small selection of web-safe fonts. However, with the introduction of the CSS @font-face rule, our options have expanded to include web fonts. This means that instead of relying on fonts installed on a user's computer, font files can now be downloaded along with your website just like any other resource, such as images or PDFs. Web fonts are added using the @font-face rule. The syntax looks similar to the CSS declarations we've been writing so far, but we're not selecting or applying styles to any elements. Instead, we're writing instructions. Let's take a closer look at each part. Start the declaration with @font-face and the curly brackets. This must be declared in your style sheet before you can use your font, then add font-family. In this context, it's used to define the name of the font family. You can name it whatever you want but it's convention to use the same name as the typeface. The source property is used to include the path to the font files with a functional URL value. It can be a relative or absolute path, just like linking to any other files such as images or a CSS file. Most modern browsers support the WOFF and WOFF2 font formats, and both are typically listed. When using multiple font files add a comma between each URL value. The format function is an optimal declaration that could be added after the URL value to provide information about the font format to the browser. Once these values are defined you're ready to start using your web font. The font family name specified inside the @font-face declaration is used as the value for the font family property in the same way as web safe fonts are used. The WOFF and WOFF2 formats are supported by modern browsers but if you need to support older browsers, different formats are required. If you don't have these different file types fontsquirrel.com has a free font generator that can create different file types. Also, note that when downloading a font, even if it's free, there are often usage guidelines. Be sure to review any read me files or licensing info before using it. To learn more about @font-face and support for older browsers, check out this article by CSS-Tricks.