Web fonts with Google Fonts
- [Presenter] Another way to use web fonts is with an online font service. With this option, you don't need to download any font files or write any @font-face declarations. That's all included in the service. Instead, we link directly to their CSS font files. Adobe Font is a paid service but if you're already subscribed to other Adobe products, this is a good option because it's included with most Adobe Creative Cloud subscription plans. But if you're looking to get started with a free service, Google Fonts is a great alternative and it's what we'll be using in our projects. Note that this page design has changed a few times over the years, so it may look different from what is shown here at the time of this recording. But even if the layout changes, the steps are pretty much the same. Let's start at looking at the different ways to choose a font. You can browse through the options presented on the landing page or you can filter by categories, languages, and styles. If you already know the font name you want to use, you can also do a search. I'll be using Caveat as my decorative font to add some flair to the headings. There's also an option to add custom text to get an idea of what the type face will look like with your content. I find this useful especially when looking at decorative fonts. Sometimes, the font will look good with the sample content but then I'll add my name and realize that I don't like how a specific letter may look. You can also adjust the size of the font which is also useful since some fonts may be harder to read at smaller sizes. Once you've decided on a font, click on it to view the available weights and styles. I'll just add the regular font weight to my collection. Your selections will be added into a panel which can be opened and closed by selecting this icon that looks like three squares with a plus symbol. Here is also where we'll find the snippet to add the Google fonts CSS file into our projects. To go back to the homepage, select the Google Fonts logo, and I'll clear my search. Now you can choose a second font. I'll be using a more basic font for the rest of the text in my project. I will go with Open Sans. For this font family, I'll also just choose the regular weight option. There's no limit to how many font files you can use but you should only add what you need. The more files you choose, the more resources the webpage has to load, which could slow down your website. A regular weight and a bold or semi-bold weight are usually enough. You may also want to add italic option. But for this project, I'm going to keep it simple. If you're not sure what you need yet and just want to try different options, add as many as you like. Once you've decided on the fonts you want to use, just come back here and remove the options you're not using and copy the updated link snippet. Take a moment to select the font pairings for your project and keep this page open. In the next lesson, we'll update our projects with our Google font selections.