Project: Google Fonts
(light music) - [Christina] In this project update, we'll add the Google Fonts we selected in the previous lesson to our website. In the Selections panel, we'll see a list of fonts that we chose and the instructions for embedding the fonts. Let's use this link snippet to load the Google font style sheet and fonts into our projects. You can select this icon to copy the snippet. If we scroll down, you'll also see the CSS rules to specify the font family names that you chose. We'll need to refer back to this when we start adding the styles into our projects. You'll also see the names of the fonts near the end of the URL. So if you chose a font different from mine, the URL will show your font names. Now, let's go back to the editor and add this link snippet to both the index and the resume files. This should be added to the head section, but let's put it right before the styles.css file so it can be loaded before our style sheet does. If we were to copy the URL listed in the href value of the snippet and paste it into the browser, we can see that the font-face method is being used to define these fonts. The only difference here is that we are linking to their CSSS file instead of adding the font files in CSS into our own projects. This isn't considered hotlinking because it's part of the service that's provided. Also, note that since this file is being hosted on a web server, you need to be connected to the internet in order for these fonts to load into your page. So if you're planning to work in a coffee shop or on an airplane or wherever you may be, make sure you have an internet connection. If you don't, a fallback or generic font will be loaded instead. So back in the project, I'm going to make sure to add these link tags to the resume page as well. Now that the link has been added, we can start using the new fonts. So let's set the base font family. In the CSS file, we'll add it to the body selector; that way, all the elements can inherit the style. We'll start with generic styles and then make them more specific as needed. I'll be using the Open Sans font for my base font. so I'm going to copy the CSS rule from here on the Google Fonts page and add it to my project. Now that we've set the base font, let's add a second font for the headings. I generally like to use a different font for the headings. In this project, I chose something more decorative: the Caveat font. So I'll go back to the Google Fonts page to copy the CSSS rule. And then back in my CSS file, I'll create a selector list. I want to apply this font to all of my headings, so I'll make a list including the h1, h2, and h3. Each selector must be separated by a comma, but the spaces in between them are optional. With this list, we can now target all of these headings with one declaration block. Now, let's save the file and check the update. Now I can see that both fonts have been applied. When using different font families, the way the default size of the characters are rendered will vary depending on how the typeface was designed. After applying the Caveat font to the headings, they now look a lot smaller. And they're still bold by default, even though I used a font with a regular font weight. In the upcoming lessons, we'll go over font sizing and more typography-related properties which can be used to adjust these default styles.