The font-size property
- [Instructor] The font-size property defines the size of HTML texts and can be used with a variety of value types. In this lesson, we'll focus on three commonly used types, pixel, em and rem. Using pixels for sizing is an ideal unit for accuracy since pixels are an absolute value, meaning they're fixed and not affected by font sizing styles in ancestor elements. Also, stick to using whole number values since different browsers interpret decimal values inconsistently with some rounding up and others rounding down. The default size of the base text in an HTML document is equivalent to 16 pixels with the exception of headings. Headings are bigger or smaller depending on the heading level. The em unit is named after the letter M, which was historically used in typography to measure widths. In CSS, em is a relative unit, sized in relation to its closest ancestor element, font-size. 1em is equal to its inherited font size. For example, a value of 1.5 will be one and a half times the size of the inherited font size. If no font size is declared anywhere, then em will be sized relative to the default browser font size. Unlike pixels, it's common to use decimal values with the em unit to calculate more precise font sizes. Rem stands for root em. It's a relative unit as well, and is similar to the em unit but it's only relative to the root element, which is the HTML element. Font sizing added to any other ancestor elements won't affect the rem unit. Let's open a CodePen example. The child element is currently displayed with the default text size of 16 pixels. If I add a font-size of 13m, it will look the same because 1em is equal to the default. Let's change it to 2em. Now it's twice the size, making it equivalent to 32 pixels. If a font-size is declared in a parent or ancestor element, the child element will be sized relative to that value. So if I set the parent to 2em, the child element is now twice the size of the parent element, which is also twice the size of the default value of 16 pixels. When using em, it's common to use decimal values to define more precise values. So let's change the child element's font-size to .5em. This makes it half the size of the parent element. There's no limit to the number of decimal points we can use. So if we set this value to 0.575, that will be valid too. The em unit can also be sized relative to other units. For example, if I use pixels in the parent element, em will be relative to that value. Let's change this to 60 pixels. Now let's take a look at how rem works. Change the value in the child element to 1rem. Now the font-size is equivalent to 16 pixels again since rem is not affected by the size of the parent or ancestor elements. Let's add the font-size to the root element using the HTML selector. Now the child element will be resized because it's relative only to the root element. You can also mix units with rem as well. If I were to change this to 30 pixels, 1rem will equal 30 pixels. Using relative values can be tricky at first but they're useful for accessibility and for creating responsive styles. We'll discuss this in more detail in the next lesson.