Font-size and accessibility
- [Instructor] Setting font sizes in pixels is a common practice, but using relative sizing is often a better choice for accessibility. I'm going to demonstrate how relative font sizing works in the browser using the example HTML file from exercise 01_03. I'm using Firefox, but this will apply to other browsers as well. This is how the default font size of the text looks before we add any CSS. As mentioned before, the text is equal to 16 pixels except for the headings, which range in size according to the heading level. In the browser settings under fonts, we can confirm that the default size is 16 pixels. I'll change it to 20, then refresh the browser tab containing the HTML file. With this setting updated, the default font size for the browser is now equal to 20 pixels. The heading text is also larger, but maintains the same sizing hierarchy. This is because default browser styles are defined using the relative M unit. By opening the dev tools and inspecting the H1 heading, the user agent style, which is the browser default style, is set to 2M. This will make the H1 twice as big as the default font size. The rest of the headings are sized with M as well. The H2 is 1.5 M, and the sizes get progressively smaller the lower you go down with the heading levels. For paragraphs and lists, there is no user agent font size set, which makes it equal to the browser settings. So to recap, when the browser font size is set to the default paragraphs and lists are 16 pixels and headings are sized relative to that value. Changing the default 20 pixels increases the font size of paragraphs and lists to 20 pixels, and headings are sized relative to the new default value. Let's see what happens when I add a font size value. Using pixels, I'll use the dev tools so I can make the change right in the browser. Let's say I want my base font size to be 14 pixels. I'll select the body element and add a font size of 14 pixels. Now the text is sized according to the font size CSS I added to the body element and ignores the user settings. But if I used 0.875 rem instead, for those who have the default set to 16 pixels, this base text will be equal to 14 pixels, but my browser is still set to 20 pixels. So using this rem value will still reduce the font size, but it will be relative to the user's browser settings. Being able to change font size preferences is especially important for people with vision impairments, so let's talk about how to use font sizing in a way that allows us to maintain control over our designs while respecting the preferences of our website visitors. For the font size property, we talked about using two relative units, em and rem. It's generally easier to maintain consistency using rem since it's only relative to the root element. Even though the browser default styles uses em, the sizes we declare in our CSS files will override the defaults. If you're building a website from a mock-up, it's commonly created using software like Photoshop and the dimensions are often set to pixels. For CSS, we need to convert them to rem. To do the conversion, divide the desired pixel value by the default root font size to get the rem value. Though users can change the browser font size settings, we can use 16 as the root size for the calculations since it's the most common setting. So 16 pixels equals one rem, 32 pixels equals two rem, and eight pixels is 0.5 rem. That's not too hard to calculate, but other font sizes don't divide quite as neatly. For example, the 0.875 rem value I just used in the browser demo is equal to 14 pixels, but there's no limit to how many decimal values can be used with rem, so these calculations work just fine, but there is another option for those who wouldn't mind doing a little less math. The 62.5 method was popularized by designer Richard Rutter in an article stemming back to 2004. He presents the idea for setting the root font size to 62.5% which takes the default value of 16 pixels down to 10. Now, the math is easier because the desired pixel amount is divided by 10. So 10 pixels equals one rem. 14 pixels is 1.4 rem, 15 is 1.5 rem, and so on. To apply this method to a project, set the root element using the HTML selector to 62.5%, then set your desired base font size to the body element using rem. If you leave it like this, the heading elements will scale according to the body's font size, and the rest of the text will be sized to 16 pixels. But most of the time, you'll want to adjust the font size of specific elements, which you can do by using more specific selectors. Now, you might be thinking, why did I bring the font size down in the root element just to bring it back up again in the body element? This just makes the default font size equivalent to 16 pixels again. Well, the 62.5 method just simplifies the math. If you don't use it, stick to the original calculation, the desired pixel amount divided by 16, and if you're not working off any specific design dimensions,. choose whatever font size values look good to you. How you decide to implement relative sizing is your personal preference. To dive deeper into this topic, check out this article. Basically, what this boils down to is relative sizing allows you to set font sizes without overriding user preferences. This doesn't mean we should never use pixels, but it's important to consider a more flexible approach when possible.