Text-align and text-transform
- [Instructor] Let's talk about the text-align and text-transform properties. The text-align property is an inheritable value and is used to align content contained within a block element. It's defined using various keyword values. The text-transform property is used to control the capitalization of the text in an element. It's also an inheritable style and used with various keyword values. Let's see how these values are applied in a CodePen example. For text-align, the keyword, center, is used to center align the text. Let's add this style to the h1 selector. It's an inheritable style, so if I add it to the parent element using the section selector, all the child elements will also be aligned. Even though this property is called text-align, this style is also applied to image elements. Continuing with the section selector, let's add the left value. This is the default value, and not surprisingly, it aligns the content to the left edge. We had applied text-align center specifically to the h1 element. That's why that heading isn't aligned to the left like all the other child elements. Specific styles override inherited styles. The start value is similar to left, but it's related to the direction of the text based on the language. So if it's a left-to-right language, start refers to the left side. So we won't see a change when adding this style in to this example, but if it's a right-to-left language, then start refers to the right side. And the opposite is true for both the right and end values. justify adds spacing between the words to evenly space the text to the left and right of the containing element except for the last line. This style is often used to make narrow columns of text resemble a newspaper, but it's not commonly used on websites because it can be hard to read for longer blocks of text. One thing to note about the text-align property, when you apply it to a specific element, it only works on a block element or elements using the display property set to block or inline block. Inline elements are the same size as their content. I'll put a background color on the span element to demonstrate. text-align arranges the content within the element, so if the element is the same size as its content, there's no space to move it in any direction to change the alignment. Now let's take a look at text-transform and add the uppercase value. As we can see, this is also an inheritable style, uppercase converts all the characters to uppercase. The lowercase value will convert all the characters to lowercase, and capitalize will convert only the first letter of each word to uppercase. We're going to be exploring a couple more text-related styles, so keep this CodePen example open. We'll be using it again.