Line-height and letter-spacing
- [Instructor] Let's take a look at two more text-based CSS properties, line height and letter spacing. Line height sets the vertical spacing between lines of text. It can be used with different value types, including length, number, percentage, and the keyword normal. The letter spacing property sets the horizontal spacing between text characters. It can be defined with length values and the keyword normal. Let's go back to the code pin from the previous lesson. Line height is related to font size, which right now is displaying the default value of 16 pixels. I'll start by commenting out the styles from the previous exercise. Now, let's add line height to the P element. If the value is the same as the font size, there will be no space between the lines. If the value is smaller, then the lines will overlap. To add space between the lines, choose a value that is larger than the font size which will make it easier to read. I'll set it to 20 pixels. Though you can use pixels, it's an absolute unit, so if I add in the font size of 20 pixels, the line height will remain the same. To make the line height more flexible, use a relative unit. If I set the value to 150%, it will be 150% of whatever the font size is. So if I change the font size, the line height will be relative to the new value. My preferred method is to use a unit list number value. Setting it to 1.5 would be the same as 150%, but personally, this just makes more sense to me. The default value of line height is the keyword normal and the exact value depends on the browser and the font family, but it's roughly equal to 1.2. So if I change this to 1.2, then comment it out, you can see that it only shifts slightly. I tend to use a value between 1.25 and 1.5, depending on the font size and font family. Now let's move on to the letter spacing property and add it to the h1 element. Adding a positive value will space the characters farther apart. Negative values will bring them closer together. Most of the time, the default letter spacing doesn't need to be adjusted, but if it does, it's usually just a bit of extra space. So I prefer to use the M unit, then I can use a decimal to allow for a more precise value. Let's try setting it to 0.05 M. For letter spacing, there really isn't one value that works for all font families. This will vary depending on the width of the characters, as well as the font size. There are more font related properties, and some are more commonly used than others. That's why it's good to have reliable resources to reference, whether you've been writing CSS for 10 days or 10 years. If you'd like to explore some more, I've added some links to extra resources in the Links.pdf file.