Project: Typography styles
(upbeat music) - [Instructor] In this project update, we'll add the rest of the text styles. Depending on what font you chose and your design goal, you may find that the text styles and values that you need will be different from mine. These are the changes we'll be adding to the project update. We're going to set the font size for the body text as well as the headings. We'll also adjust the margins in the headings to remove some of this extra space. Let's go to our CSS file. For the font sizing, I'll be using the 62.5 method. So the first step is to declare the font size in the HTML element. We already have the declaration block from adding the border-box fix. So I'll just add it here. (keyboard clicks) We'll set the font size to 62.5%. And this isn't required, but I'm just going to add a little note here, just to explain what this line is doing. Setting the default to 10 pixels. Now for the base body font, I'd like to make mine a little bit smaller than the default, so using the body selector, I'm going to set the font size to 1.5 rem, (keyboard clicks) so this will be equivalent to 15 pixels. Next, I'll add the line-height property. I find that the default is usually a bit small for my liking, so I'll increase the spacing between the lines and set it to 1.4. (keyboard clicks) This will make it relative to the font size. Now let's save the file and check the changes in the browser. This was a subtle change but sometimes a small change can make all the difference. Next, let's make some changes to the headings. The font I chose from my headings runs small, so I'm going to bump up the size quite a bit. Back in the CSS file let's create new declaration blocks for each heading to set the font sizes. For the H1 I'm going to set the font size to 7rem. For the H2, I'm going to use 3.6rem. And for the H3, I'll go with 2.4rem. (keyboard clicks) Save your file and let's check these updates. Now we can see that there's a lot more space around the H1 and H2 headings. The bigger the font size, the bigger the margin. Also, I'd like to remove the margin from the H3 headings as well. That way this text can line up to the same top edge as the image in the Projects section. That also applies to the Work Experience and Education section as well. If we remove this margin then these two columns will be lined up. I'm also going to remove the default bold from all the heading styles so it can map to the normal weight I chose for the Caveat font. To demonstrate what the next couple of steps will look like, let's do it in the dev tools because it's convenient for small changes, we can experiment with different values right in the browser. I'll just right-click anywhere on the page and select Inspect to open the dev tools. I'm going to dock it to the right side so we can see a little bit more in the HTML and CSS panel. Select these three dots and click Dock to Right. All right, so I'm going to start with setting the font weight to 400 to remove the default bold style. I'll add that to the selector list. Here's how it looks without the bold and here's how it looked with the bold. Now let's remove the margins from all the headings using the same selector list. We'll set margin to zero to do that. Even though the margin has been removed we can still see some space in between the headings, this is coming from the line height which is relative to the font size. So sometimes when you're using a large font size it may result in too much space. But some space between lines is recommended to make it easier to read. Since the H1 is the largest font size I'll add the line height property to just this heading and set it to one. Now the headings are closer together, but if you want the space to be even closer use a decimal value smaller than one. Let's try 0.9. (keyboard clicks) We could even try 0.8, or we can get even more granular and go with 0.85. Now the headings are closer together and the H3 headings in the project area are almost lined up to the image. There's still a little bit of space at the top, and again that's coming from the line height. But I actually don't mind the space here so I'm going to leave that as is. We've just tested a bunch of styles in the dev tools, but remember, changes here aren't actually applied to the CSS file, so let's add that in. Back in the CSS file, we'll add the font weight set to 400 to remove the default for all the headings. Then set the margin to zero to remove the default margin space for all the headings as well. And for the H1, I chose to add a line height value of 0.85. (keyboard clicks) Now let's save the file and go back to the browser and make sure we captured all the updates. So it looks like all the styles have been added. Let's also check out the homepage. Since we use selectors that are applied to both pages we can see that the heading styles and font sizes has also been applied to the header here as well. Depending on the fonts you chose and your personal preferences you may want to use different styles. So feel free to experiment with the font size and line height and other text styles before moving on to the next lesson. But keep your project files open because we'll be adding more updates to the button styles in the Work Experience and Education sections.