Project: Buttons and spacing
- [Narrator] In this project update, we're finally going to finish styling the button links. Looking at the final version, here's what the buttons look like and what we'll need to add to get it there. We'll definitely need to add some padding, to add space inside the button. The letters are also set to all caps, and we'll add some rounded corners, which is a common design aesthetic for buttons. Let's jump into the CSS file. Using the button selector, we'll build onto the styles that we already have. Let's start by adding text transform and setting it to uppercase. Using all caps tends to make text look bigger, so I'm going to bring this size down to 1.2 rim to make it smaller than the paragraph text. The button link is also an inline element, so to add padding, set the display to inline block so the elements will still line up side by side, but the padding will be applied on all sides. For the padding, I'll go with seven pixels. We've just added a bunch of CSSs, so let's save this file and see how it looks in the browser. Now that the text is smaller and in all caps, it's a little bit harder to read. So let's add some space between the letters with the letter-spacing property. I'll do this again in the dev tools so we can experiment with different values in the browser. Click anywhere in the blank spot to be able to add a new property. I'll add some letter spacing, and let's just put in 1em. Usually you only have to add a little bit of space, so as you can see here, 1em is way too much space, so let's bring it down to 0.1 instead. Now, here's how it looks with the letter spacing and how it looks without the letter spacing. I think 0.1 adds just enough space. Also, notice that I'm using em here instead of rem. This is to make the sizing relative to the font size of the current element, which is the button, rather than the font size of the root element. Now for the padding, we had added a value of seven pixels, which should have added the same amount around all four sides, but it looks like there's a little bit more on the top and the bottom, and that's because of the line height again. So let's set line height to one. Now, to make rounded corners, we'll use the border-radius property. We can use a number of value here, so I'm going to go with four pixels to make it slightly rounded. You can also use the arrow keys to change the value by increments of one. The higher the number, the rounder the corners. I only want it to be slightly rounded, so I think I'll just stick with four pixels. If you're happy with the values, let's go back to the CSS file and add them. So we added a letter spacing value of 0.1em, and we also set the line height to one, and then added a border radius value of four pixels. All right, so let's save the file and just double check that we've captured all the changes in the browser. All right, so the updated button styles have been applied, but now I want to make a change to just the Download PDF button, which uses the same button styles. Let's differentiate this by making the text bigger. Back in the CSS file, we already created a second class for styling the download link under the Resume section. Let's update the font size here. I'll go with 1.5rem. Let's check these updates. Now the button size is bigger. Let's scroll down to the work experience area. We just need to adjust a little spacing. For example, I'd like to remove the margins from the paragraphs in the first column. That way all these work details can be closer together. Same with the Education section. For the summary in the work items, I just want to remove the margin from the top of the first paragraph so that it can line up with the text in the first column, but I want to keep the space in the following paragraphs. So let's go back to the editor and add these updates. Looking at the HTML structure for the work items, the paragraphs in the left column is contained in the work details div. We'll remove all the margins from these paragraphs. In the Work Summary column, we just want to remove the top margin of the first paragraph. In the CSS file, let's add a new declaration block for these paragraphs. Under the Work section, we'll start with the Work Details class, then add a space and P to select the paragraphs, and we'll set the margin to zero. Then for the work summary, we'll select just the first paragraph. We'll start with a work summary space P, and then we're going to use a pseudo selector. Way back in chapter two, we talked about using the first child pseudo selector to target the first element in a section. Let's use that now. Add a colon first-child, we'll add our curly brackets, and then set the margin just for the top to zero. Now let's go back to the HTML file and create a new class for the Education section. Each item is contained within its own section element, so let's add a class to each of these blocks. I'll call it education item. Then I'll copy this class and add it to the other items. We'll be targeting the paragraphs here as well. So let's switch over to the CSS file and add the new selector. So we'll start this with the education item class space P, and set the margin to zero. Okay, we've added a bunch of styles, so let's save the file and check the changes in the browser. In the Work Experience and Education section, the text is now all lined up, but we still need to add one more thing. We want to add some space in between each item. Let's go back to the CSS file to make one more update. This time, we'll add margin to the top and bottom of each work item and education item. I'm already here in the Education section, so let's add that one first. We'll add the education item class, and I'll set the margin to 30 pixels on the top and bottom, and zero on the left and right, and let's do the same for the work item. A margin of 30 pixels again, to the top and bottom, and zero on the left and right, and let's save the file and check the update. Now we can see the spaces in between each item in both the Work Experience and Education sections. Although it may seem counterintuitive to remove default styles and then add in our own, it's necessary. Remember, HTML was originally meant for sharing text-based documents, but it's now used for much more, so we need to adjust the styles accordingly. Some developers use a reset style sheet to remove default styles and start fresh. This article discusses the reasoning history and options. I personally don't use reset style sheets, and when you're learning, it's good to see what the default styles look like so you know how to deal with them. Using a reset is another one of those widely debated developer topics, and so there's no right or wrong answer. Check out the article and decide if it makes sense for you.