Working with lists
- [Instructor] Let's make an adjustment here to our component. We have a main tag here, but realistically I want this to be a more dynamic component that's being rendered here on line 16. So if I create main inside of the app, I also need to create main as its own component. And here we're going to return an unordered list, and then the list should have a few different items. 1, 2, 3. So, assuming my project is running with NPM Run Dev, I should see that on local host 5173, all of our list items are appearing. But this would be more fun if this was dynamic data. So let's create a list of items. So we'll say items, we'll set that equal to an array with square brackets, and then macaroni and cheese, and salmon with potatoes, and tofu with vegetables. And obviously this is your own restaurant, so feel free to add your own items there. Don't let me tell you how to run your restaurant. What we want to do with these items is display them inside of this main function component. So, here inside of the list items, we want to get rid of these, and instead pass those in. So the place I'll pass those in, I'll say dishes is equal to items, so it's equal to whatever this list of items might be. And think of that as being whatever dynamic data you want to create. Nice. So from here what I can do is I'll pass this in. So we'll say dishes. We'll destructure those dishes from the props object. Within our unordered list, we're going to open and close a set of curly braces. This is a JSX expression that we're going to use here. So we can say dishes.map. For each one of our dishes, we want to return a list item. And this list item should display whatever is in this list. So whatever is here should be displayed as the list item. So now if we go back to our application running, we see it's working. And the last thing that I can do here is for each list item, I could say style equals, and then we're going to pass in a CSS style. So we'll use two sets of curly braces. That's a fun little syntax thing that we can know about. And then we can say, list style type none, back here, our bullets are gone. Now finally, if we open the console Command + Option + J, this is going to let me know that each child in the list should have a unique key property. So this is a rendering error that's very common, and we'll fix it in the next video.