Displaying images with React
- [Instructor] Now that we know how to add text to our React application, let's add an image. This can feel a little confusing, but we can add them just like we would in an HTML file. So to start, I want to point out that I have a new folder here called images. And in it there is a file called chef.jpg that we are going to render. So, we're going to collapse this and decide where in the app this should be placed. So, let's first import this. So we'll say import chef from "./images/chef.jpg". Then we're going to place it inside of the project. So in the main, we want to make a few little adjustments to the main component. First we want to wrap everything in a <main> tag and then closing tag here. And from here we will add our image. So we'll say image src={chef}. So we'll use that little JSX expression there. You could also set a property like height here. Remember that if we're passing in a number of any kind, this will be passed in within our curly braces. A string would pass in based on double quotes. So back here we see our image is being displayed right here in the browser. Another thing that we always want to do is to give some sort of image description as an alt attribute here to the image. So we'll say "A photo of a smiling chef owner". So this is Alex, our smiling chef owner. And if anyone happens to use a screen reader for this, it will read the description of that image. Okay, so from here, what we can do also, let's say I wanted to pass in the URL of a different image. We're just going to use this little GitHub thing. A tricky little fun thing you should know about GitHub is you can always grab your image by using whatever your GitHub name is .png. And that's just a fun little test to make sure that that is working. But we don't want this to be my restaurant. We want it to be this chef's restaurant. So we'll go back to that JSX expression there. So we can always place these images inside of the images folder. We're going to import that value, and then we can display it simply by using an image tag. And don't forget to add an alt attribute so that your image is accessible.