Using Fragments
- [Instructor] Let's open up our app JSX so that we can demonstrate breaking something. So what we want to do first is we're going to add a div here to our main component, and we're going to add a description of some sort. So welcome to this beautiful restaurant. And if I'm being a good HTML-ian, I can wrap that in an H2. So as soon as I do that, we notice a problem, because we see that squiggly underline. But let's run our app to make sure that we understand why we see that. So if we type NPM run dev, so we should see some sort of error. And this is letting us know that adjacent JSX elements must be wrapped in an enclosing tag. Did we want a JSX fragment? They're spoiling the answer, but yes, I totally do want a JSX fragment. And a JSX fragment exists to keep us from doing this. In the old days of React before we had a JSX fragment, we would always be wrapping these adjoining tags in usually a div. So that would make all of this code work, but then that starts to clutter up the DOM with a bunch of extra divs. So if we take a look at our React components here, these are showing our components, but we do in the React elements have a bunch of these enclosing divs. So this starts to junk up the DOM tree here. So couple things we can do. We can replace this with React.Fragment, and we would replace the opening tag with that too. And then we'll see React is not defined. That is asking me to import it here at the top of the file. So if I refresh, clear that out, we should see that we don't have any errors in the console and everything is working okay. But it's more than likely that the real fragments that you'll see look like this. We'll get rid of React.Fragment, and we'll just use this opening and closing little shorthand tag. We'll do the same here on line 48, and then we should see everything working okay. And that will also not require me to import React from React. So everything is working as we expect it to. So just to recap what we did here, we had a new div and a main tag. And removing the fragment would break the app, because we're trying to render two adjacent JSX elements. We're trying to render two different elements here at the same level. And what React requires is that we wrap everything in an enclosing tag. If we use a fragment, this is sort of like an enclosing tag that doesn't get recorded in the DOM. So there we go. We've used our first JSX fragment.