Rename files
- [Instructor] Let's see what happens in Git when you rename a file, as it might seem a bit unexpected. We'll use Example.md. We're not changing its content, just its name. I'll rename it and I'll call it NewName.md. Now let's use git status to see what has changed. It looks like Git created a new file. Example.md was deleted and NewName.md was created with new content. At this point, Git doesn't seem to realize that they are the same file, but now let's see what happens when we add it to the staging area. We'll use git add . I'll clear the screen and at git status again. Git now understands that this is the same file, just renamed. Initially, it might seem like Git was confused, but it now understands that the file is simply renamed. There's another method to rename files directly in Git. First, I'll commit the current change so we don't get confused. I'll use git commit -m "renames Example.md to NewName.md". Now let's change a name directly. I'll use the command git mv and then the old name and then a new name. So in this example I'll use gitStatusDemo.md and I'll call it newStatus.md. When I press enter, we can see the change in the file menu, and now, when I use git status, we can see that the change is already in the staging area, so I don't need to use git add. Now we can commit it by using git commit -m "renames gitStatusDemo.md to newStatus.md". We can commit and now we can push our changes so that they are also present in the remote repository. Both these methods achieve the same result, so you can choose whichever one you prefer.