Working with folders
- [Instructor] So far we've only been working with files, but what about folders? Git can keep track of folders too, so let's explore how that works. To start, I have created two new folders, First Folder and Second Folder. Now let's move NewName.md into First Folder. I'll confirm and I'll check Git status. I'll move this up a little bit so you can see it. And Git recognizes that a file has been deleted and a new folder has been created. Remember from the last video that Git seems to think that a file has been deleted when it gets renamed? This also happens when a file is moved in the folder structure. So let's stage these changes by using git add dot. We'll check status again. This time Git sees that the file was renamed rather than deleted. It recognizes that the file was moved to the new folder. Now I'll commit it. I'll use git commit -m moves newName to First_Folder. There we go. Let's push these changes. There we are. If I check the remote repository now, I can see that First Folder was created. But wait, what about Second Folder? We created it, but it's missing from the repository here. If we check our file explorer right here, it is still there locally. So why doesn't Git track it? This brings us to something important when using Git. Git does not track empty folders. If a folder has no files in it, Git will completely ignore it. It won't show up in the staging area, and it won't be included in the commit. So what can we do to make sure that Git recognizes an empty folder? What we do is we add a special file. Press new file, and it's called .gitkeep. This is a common convention used by developers to indicate that a folder is important for the project structure, even if it doesn't have any real content yet. Now I created a file called .keep inside this folder and I'll save it. So now when I use Git status, again, Git detects the folder. I'll add it with Git add dot. and I can commit it. Git commit -m adds Second_Folder. Press enter. And now if I push this, I am able to see the Second Folder in my remote repository, and the .gitkeep file is inside of it. Of course, once I add real content to this folder, I can delete .gitkeep because Git will keep tracking it as normal.