Undo your changes
- [Instructor] As we make changes to our files, there might be times where we don't want to keep them. Maybe we realize we need to go back to the previous commit, and the good news is we can do that with Git. Let's see how it works. To start off, I've removed a line from NewName.md and I've added a line to newStatus.md. I will now stage those changes by using git add ., and I'll use git status and see that both of the files are in the staging area. But what if I change my mind at this point? What if I don't want to commit these changes after all and I want to do a rollback? The good thing is git status actually tells me what to do. It suggests using git restore --staged, followed by the file name to remove it from staging. Let's try that with NewName.md. We'll type git restore --staged First_Folder/NewName.md. Note that the folder is part of the file name here. I'll press Enter. And when I check git status, one file is still in the staging area, but NewName.md has moved back to the working directory. I can also remove all stage files at once using git restore --staged, and then a dot. Now both files are out of the staging area and back in the working directory as we can see with git status. There we go. But what if you want to go even further? What if I don't want these changes after all? Not just on stage, but completely removed. I can reset the files back to their previous states. Once again, git status gives me the answer here. I can use git restore without staged. So I'll use git restore and the dot. The changes disappear immediately. It's like it never happened before. As you can see, this command is really powerful. It can wipe out all uncommitted changes in one go, so you need to use it carefully. But if you have been experimenting or things got messy, this is a great way to reset everything back to the last commit.