View commit history
- [Instructor] We've talked about Git as a tool for tracking the history of our files, what has changed and when, but how do we actually see that history? That's where git log comes in. Let's move to our codespace. I will open up the terminal all the way, as that is where our focus will be. If we type git log in the command line, it shows us the commit history for this repository. Each entry includes a commit, a unique identifier called a checksum, the author's name, the date, and a commit message. You can see now why it's important to write clear, descriptive commit messages. Now, you notice that Git only shows a few commits at a time. You can press Spacebar to scroll down and see more. If you want to leave this view, simply press Q and you'll be back at the command front, ready to enter new commands. But git log does more than just show a list of commits. You can filter and explore history in different ways. Let's look at a few useful examples. First, if we want details about the specific commit, we can copy the checksum. I'll copy this one. So we copy the checksum. I'll clear my screen to make it more visible, and I'll use git show and then paste. And now we see all the changes that have been made in this specific commit. So this gives me a more detailed view of this part of the repository's history. Let's look at another option. I'll clear my screen and use git log -p. This command not only lists commits, but also shows the actual changes made in each one. So I'll press Space and I can scroll to all those changes that have been made, so I can see exactly where something was modified. But we can also go the other direction. I'll clear my screen again and I'll use git log --oneline. Press Enter, and you can see that makes the log more readable by showing only the commit messages and shortening the commit IDs to seven characters. And seven characters is actually enough to identify the commit. What you could also do is search the log for commit messages. This is especially useful if you remember part of the commit message but not the exact commit. We do this by using --grep and then the phrase. So for example, I'll run git log --grep='Example'. I'll press Enter, and I get all the commits with commit messages that contains that string. Another little trick that you can use is graph if you are working with branches. I'll clear the screen again and use git log --graph. It's a great tool as it provides a visual representation. You can see how branches have diversed and then merged again. You can see it with the lines at the front. Of course, for this project, this isn't that exciting, as this is a single-branch project. But remember this command for when you start using branches yourself. Finally, you are able to track history in a remote repository's web interface. So if we navigate to our remote repository, here, I can see the commit history. I can click on that and I get a full list of everything that has changed in my repository. If I click one, I will see all the changes that have been made in the files. It gives a nice visual breakdown. So this is another helpful way to explore your repository's history. There are many more options you can use when you use git log, but these should give you a solid foundation so you can view and search through your commit history.