Revert a commit
- [Instructor] In the previous video, we looked at how to view past versions of our project. Now, let's see how we can actually take back the changes in the previous version. Maybe we introduced a mistake or a bug that we need to undo. We can quickly fix that with git. First, let's check our commit history. I'll use git log --oneline. Now, let's say I want to undo the change where I renamed GitStatus.demo. To do this, I'll copy the commit ID and I'll use git revert and then copy and paste. When I press Enter, Git opens an editor message where I can modify the commit message for the fact that I have reverted. I like this message as it is, so when I close the editor, the commit is done. Now if I check my files on the left, I see that my file has been named back to gitStatusDemo.md. Now, it is important to note I am not actually rewriting history. That's generally considered bad practice because it can cause issues if others are working on the same code. Instead, what I have done is create a new commit that makes the changes to undo the previous one. If I check my history again using git log --oneline, I'll see a new commit that says Revert "renames gitStatusDemo to newStatus." So instead of deleting history, I've added a new record that clearly shows that we reverted this specific commit. Let's push this change to the remote repository so we have a consistent environment. Now, this action went very smoothly, but if you go back further in history, you might be hit with merge conflicts. We will discuss how to handle those in the next chapter, but if your changes aren't that large, you should not have big issues.