Make use of the GUI of Visual Studio Code
- [Instructor] Keeping track of files and changes can get confusing, especially when you're working with multiple files. That is why I want to show you how Visual Studio Code can help with this process. VS Code can visualize what is happening, allowing you to even use Git without a command line. This can be especially helpful if you're still getting comfortable with Git. Let me show you how it works. I've started by adding a line to gitStatusDemo.md. And I will also remove a line from NewName.md. So we have something to work with. Now, you may have already noticed the icon in the sidebar that now shows a number. This is the source control, which is where Visual Studio Code helps you manage Git. If we click it, we can see the files that have been modified. When I click on NewName,md. Visual Studio Code opens a side-by-side view. On the left, it shows the original file, and on the right, it highlights the changes. Any new lines appearing green, making it easier to see exactly what was added. I can do the same for gitStatusDemo.md, and again, I get a clear visual of changes that I've made. If I'm happy with my changes and ready to commit, I can do this right here in Visual Studio Code. I simply click the plus sign next to the files to add them to the staging area, or if I want to add them all at once, I can use the plus sign here right next to Changes. Then I can enter a commit message, just like I would in a command line. I can enter it right here, and then click Commit. Now my changes have been committed to the local repository. Since my repository is already connected to a remote one, I can push my changes straight away. I just click Sync Changes. The first time I do that, Visual Studio Code will explain that syncing means both pushing and pulling, so you always have the latest version on your device. I can choose to dismiss this message or prevent it from showing again in the future. I'll press OK, and Visual Studio Code now pushes my commits and pulls any new updates from the remote repository. Finally, I want to show you that I have a menu here with more actions. In this menu, I can see even more Git options. I can clone a repository, I can push without pulling, I can pull updates manually, and much more. So using Visual Studio Codes, Git tools can be very helpful, especially when you're new to Git. It gives you a clear overview of your changes and it helps you to navigate Git commands more easily, so it makes your process run a little bit smoother and maybe more intuitive.