Challenge: Make a change and revert
(exciting music) - We've reached the end of the chapter, and I think you're ready for another challenge. This time we'll make some changes and then revert some of them. Here's what you'll do. First, create a new markdown file in your repository. Add a line to it and commit it to the local repository. Now, add another line to the file. It can be anything you want. Commit this file as well. Now move the file into a folder and do a new commit. Finally, move the file back out of the folder by reverting to the previous commit in the Git history. You can do all of this locally by committing each step, or you can push your changes in between if you want to keep track of them remotely. That part is up to you.

Solution: Make a change and revert
(bright music) - [Instructor] So how did it go? Let's see a solution to our challenge. So I have already created important_File.md and added a line. Now I am going to commit this to my local repository. I'll first add it to the staging area and then I'll use git commit -m "creates Important File md". All right. I will add an extra line, save that, and I'll create a new commit. So I'll press Enter and use git commit and commit this file as well. Now I am going to create a folder and I'll add the file Important File to the Important folder. Again, I will create a commit, so I'll add the change and I'll commit. As you can see, Git sees this as a rename of Important File to Important File in the Important folder. Remember that at any point you can check your process with git status. As we can see here, I am now ahead of the remote branch, so I'll push everything. There we go. Now let's review our git history. I'll press Clear and use Git log --oneline to get an overview of the history of my commits. I will take the last commit that I did and copy the ID. Press Q to get my prompt again, and I'll use git revert. I'll press Enter and Git creates a commit message for me. I'll accept it by closing the box. And now we can see that Important File has been moved back to the main folder. If we look at the history again, we can see that the top commit has reverted the previous one. So there we go. If anything felt unclear, feel free to revisit this chapter and follow along again.