Ignoring files
- There are a few key concepts that can make your Git workflow much smoother. One of them is telling Git to ignore certain files. In many coding projects there are files that you don't actually want to track with Git. A great example is log files. While they're useful locally, they're not really relevant for the code itself. Or maybe you have some personal configuration files that shouldn't be shared with the repository. Luckily we can handle this using a special file called .gitignore. This file needs to be in the root of your project. It's just a plain text file named .gitignore, and Git automatically understands that anything listed inside it should be ignored. You can specify files directly, entire folders, or even use wildcard slice asterisk for more flexibility. Let's set up an example here. So I have already added two extra files to second folder, log01.log and log02.log. Now if I run Git status and I'll make it a bit bigger, Git sees that there are two new files and says they are untracked. In this repository, I already have a Git ignore file and I'm going to use it. If I didn't, I could create one just like I would create any other file. Don't forget the dot at the beginning or it won't work. So I'll open my Git ignore file, and I'll add logO2.log. I'll press save and I'll run Git status again. And we now see that it only tracks log01.log and it shows that Git ignore has been modified. We can also see on the left that the file is now grayed out to visualize which files are not tracked by Git. When we add log02.log to Git ignore like this, it doesn't matter if it's in a folder or not, it will ignore any version of this file in the repository. We could also ignore the entire folder. We do that by adding second folder and then the slash to gitignore. And when I save it, we see that both log01 and log02 are not being tracked anymore. So by adding this everything in second folder, starting from now on will be ignored. If we want more control over this, we could for example, say *.log. Now we know that every file that ends with .log in second folder will be ignored. All other files will be tracked. There's a lot of ways, as you can see, to customize this, and it's a really handy tool for keeping unnecessary files out of your Git history. Now a final note, maybe you saw that .gitkeep was still being tracked even though I asked Git to ignore the whole folder. That is because gitignore only works for file that weren't previously tracked. And this is by design. If you want an existing file to stop being tracked, official documentation recommends alternative solutions, like making the file into a template or deleting it altogether.