The .git folder
- [Instructor] Git seems to be living in the background so far. We are still using our usual file management platform, but you can still see an extra folder in the File Explorer, .git. You might have to make it visible, as it is a hidden folder by default. Let's take a look. You can make this folder visible in Visual Studio Code or in your codespace. To do that, first open the Command Palette by using Control + Shift + P if you're on Windows or Command + Shift + P on a Mac. Now type user settings. We got two options, and we open the second one, User Settings JSON. You can add your own specific settings here, and one of them that you could add is this one. To make it a little bit easier in this course, I have set something up for you. You can go to the folder .vscode and then settings.json. Here, you can find the same line, but it's commented out. If you select that and then press Ctrl + / on a Windows or Command + / on a Mac, you can now see the folder we were talking about on the left, so here's the git folder. Inside this folder, there are files that make your local folder a Git repository. These files store everything, history, metadata, and other important information. The most important one for you to know about is the config file that we talked about before. This holds the configuration details specific for this repository. There are other files in here that store information about remote repository, about logs and branch details. While it is okay to look through these files, it's best not to modify anything. Changing these files could cause Git to stop functioning properly. If you delete this Git folder, your repository will no longer be a Git repository. It will just be a regular local folder again.