Create a branch in your repository
- [Instructor] In Chapter one, we briefly talked about branches. A branch is like a second version of your code that you can work on separately. This is really useful if your code is running in production and you don't want to change it while developing new features. It's also helpful when multiple people are working on the same project at the same time. In fact, for a larger project, it is considered best practice to make all changes in branches. If you start out, branches can feel like a challenge. If you are having difficulty, I recommend to just start with using Git without using branches. But I do want to show you the concept so that you can get into it once you feel you're ready. In this video, we will see how it works. So, what actually happens when you create a branch? You start with your main code, often the production version, which is stored in your Git provider. When you create a branch, you're making a copy of that code. This can be done both in the Git provider or locally, meaning branches can exist in both places. Once you have a branch, you can start making changes within it while the main branch remains untouched. Let's see that in action. We are going to create a new branch from our local environment and then push it to the remote repository. In our code space, first we make sure that the working tree is clean by typing git status. There we go. We are going to create a new branch. To do this, we can use git branch, and then, the name of our new branch. Make the name something that describes what the branch is for, often a specific feature. We will use git branch logfolder. There we go. Now, we need to check out this branch so we can start working in this one instead of the main branch. We use git checkout logfolder. And now, we are in our new branch and we can start making changes. I have created a folder called logs and then, two log files. Now, let's add these changes to the staging area using git add . and we'll commit them with a commit message. With everything committed, it's time to push this to the remote repository. I'll clear my screen so that we get a clear overview and I'll use git push. Now, when we do that, we see that we get an error message. The cool thing is that the error message actually tells us what is wrong and what we can do about it. It tells us the branch only lives in our local environment and not in the remote one. And we can use git push --set-upstream to make sure that it also exists in the remote repository. So I can just copy this line, add it here, and now the command goes through. Now, if we move back to github, we see that logfolder has been pushed three seconds ago. So we can find out branch here. The other option we have is to look right here at the main branch in the log folder. This also helps us move back to the main branch and note that there's no log folder here. All the code here is untouched. In the next video, we can see how we can merge our branch to a pull request.