Create and merge a pull request
- [Instructor] In this video, we will see how we can create a pull request. A pull request is what we use when we want to merge two branches. Often this will be a branch where we created a feature and a main branch. Locally, you would just merge the branch without a pull request, but in larger projects, a pull request is the better way. This is where team members can review your code, give feedback, and approve the changes. Once the pull request is complete, your code get merged into the main branch. At that point, it's best practice to delete the old branch as you don't need it anymore. Keeping it could only cause confusion. Let's do it in our repository. In our repository on GitHub, we go to Pull requests. Here we can create a new pull request or use the button if we have one to use. Let's select New pull request. I can now compare the changes between two branches. The base branch here is main and I want to compare logfolder. I can now see all the changes on this page. I can also see right next to where I selected logfolder that it is able to merge. This means that Git can automatically solve the differences and add the new changes to the old environment. I can view the changes right here and create a pull request. This is where I can define a title and the description of what I did. You can make sure this is all descriptive, as it can save you a lot of conversation later. As you can see, I added that it creates a folder for logs, and in the description I defined that this is just for demonstration. When we are done, we create the pull request by pressing the button. There we go. We can now ask someone to review the code, see if the quality is high enough, and if they don't spot mistakes. We can see the changes that have been made in this view, which is very helpful to get the big picture. We can find them by clicking here on the changed files. As it is just us here, we will accept the pull requests ourselves. Move back to conversation, and click on Merge pull request. If you want to, you can change the commit message, but I'll leave it as it is. Our pull request has now been successfully merged and closed. If we go back to the main branch, right here, we see that the logs folder has now been added, so the changes have been merged. Don't forget to delete the old branch, as you shouldn't be needing it anymore. We walk through these concepts like it's a breeze, but don't worry if it feels a bit overwhelming. If you're working on your own, you can get by without branches, but as soon as you start contributing to a public repository or you start working together with your coworkers or your friends, knowing how to use them becomes important.