Challenge: Create a branch and a pull request
(bright techno music) - All right, time for a challenge. We've talked about branches in Git, and now it's your turn to create one yourself. The goal, you're going to create a new branch, add a file, and then merge it back into the main branch with a pull request. Let's go. Open our repository and create a branch. In the branch, change the status.md file by adding your favorite joke. When you're done, commit and push the changes. After that, open github.com and create a pull request. Do a final review of the code and merge it into the main branch. Let's go.

Solution: Create a branch and a pull request
(upbeat music) - [Instructor] So, how did the challenge go? Let's walk through it together. First, we created a branch, git branch joke. Don't forget to check out the branch, checkout joke. We now create a new foul called joke.md and we write a funny joke in there. With that, we'll use git add . to add everything. And now we commit. I'll use git push. And now I get the command that I need to make sure that this branch also exists in the remote repository. I push again to check if it actually has worked, and we go back to our web interface to see that our branch has been created. We now create a pull request. We can do this straight from here, so let's do that. And in this screen, we see we are able to merge this. You can add the description yourself and then create the pull request. And here we can view what has actually changed. We check which files have been changed, and with this, we are able to go to the conversation and merge this pull request. Confirm, and now we are done. If you are having trouble somewhere in the middle, check back on the videos in this chapter to get some extra help.