Intro to Flexbox
- [Instructor] Historically, float, and sometimes display and position, were used to create various page layouts. While there are still uses for these properties the flexible box layout, or flexbox for short, has introduced more ways for aligning and sizing elements. Let's dive into flexbox, beginning with the terminology. The flex container refers to the parent element. The flex items refer to only the child elements within the flex container. Flex items are laid out along the main axis. The direction is horizontal by default, so the flex items are arranged in rows, but the direction of the main axis can be changed to run vertically in columns using the flex direction property set to column. The cross axis will always run perpendicular to the direction of the main axis. Both axes also have start and endpoints, main start and main end for the main axis, cross start and cross end for the cross axis. To use flexbox, the first step is to define the flex container. Earlier we used the display property to change the behavior of inline and block elements, but display is also used to define the flex container with one of two values: flex or inline flex. When display: flex is added to the parent element, each child becomes a flex item and will automatically be displayed in a row. The flex items will also be the same size as their content, while the flex container still spans the width of its container. If the display value is set to inline flex, the flex container will span the width of its content, the flex items, and displays inline to other flex containers. Though the flex items resize themselves automatically to the size of their content, you can set specific sizes as well, which we'll talk about soon. Also, with flexbox, the height of each flex item automatically adjusts to match the height of the tallest item, without requiring additional CSS. If you're new to CSS, you are in luck. Legacy techniques such as float required additional hacks to make equal height columns, but by using only the flex display value, we can already create basic column layouts. We'll continue to explore more flex properties for further customization and layout options.