Flexbox: Orientation and ordering
- [Instructor] One useful feature of Flexbox is its ability to align items in either rows or columns. The flex-direction property controls the direction of the main axis and also the order of the items. It has four possible values. Row, row-reverse, column, and column-reverse. This property is added to the flex container. Row is the default value. The main start and main end depends on the writing mode of the document. In left-to-right languages like English, main start and main end runs from left to right. In right-to-left languages like Arabic, main start and main ends runs from right to left. Using the column value with flex-direction changes the main axis to a vertical direction. This displays the flex items in a column with each item stacked on top of each other. The main start and main end properties run from top to bottom and expand to the width of their container. The direction of the main start and main end can also be flipped. Row-reverse displays a row of flex items with main start and main end running right to left. Column-reverse displays a column of flex items with main start and main end running from bottom to top. However, for accessibility reasons, using reverse values should not replace the ordering of the content. This should only be used for visual styles since the ordering of the HTML itself is not changed. Flex items are arranged on a single axis by default defined by the flex-wrap property. The default value is nowrap, which means flex items will always stay on the same line. If there are too few items to fill the container, the remaining space will be displayed. If the total width of the items is larger than the container, they will shrink to fit. But if the items can't shrink enough to fit in the container, the content will overflow. This can be changed by setting flex-wrap to wrap. This will cause the flex items to wrap to the next line if they don't fit instead of shrinking them to fit into one line. But if there is extra space in the container in the last row, it will still be displayed. There are other flex properties that we can use to control how items expand and shrink to fill the space. We'll cover these in an upcoming lesson. The direction of the wrapped items can also be changed using the wrap-reverse value. Just note that only the cross start and cross end are reversed. The items are still in the same order on the main axis. Flex-wrap and flex-direction can also be defined together using the shorthand property flex-flow. We'll continue to explore a few more flex properties, their syntax, and usage. Then we'll apply these concepts in an example and a project update.