Sizing with flex properties
- [Instructor] The main feature of the Flexbox layout is its ability to have the flex items expand or shrink to fit its container. This is defined by the flex property, which is shorthand for flex-grow, flex-shrink and flex-basis. Let's review the syntax and usage. Flex-grow determines how items expand in the flex container. It's defined with a unitless number value. The default is zero, meaning items won't expand and any extra space won't be filled. But a value of one will expand all the flex items equally to fill the container. But the flex-grow value of one doesn't make all the flex items the same size. If some flex items have more content than others they will still be displayed with different sizes. However, the extra space is divided evenly among the flex items and added to the current size of each item. The flex shrink property controls how flex items will shrink if they're larger than the container. It also uses a unitless number value. The default is one, which means that all the flex items will shrink by the same amount. Setting the value to zero will prevent the flex items from shrinking at all. If there isn't enough space in the container the flex items will overflow unless flex-wrap is set to wrap. Flex basis sets the initial size of flex items with length, percentage or keyword values. The default value is auto, which means flex items are displayed as the same size of its content. It also sits the size of the flex items using the default box sizing value of content-box, which means any padding or border added to the flex item will make it larger, but most projects will have the box model fixed supplied, which we covered in the box model lessons. These properties are usually defined using the shorthand flex property to ensure all values are set. When using the shorthand syntax the order is flex-grow, flex-shrink and flex-basis. Now, let's look at how this all works together. First, define the display property in the container element to initiate a Flexbox layout. Then apply the flex properties directly to the flex items. You can do a lot with the flex property and there are a few more flex values we haven't explicitly discussed. I would encourage you to check out the MDN documentation after getting comfortable with the basics.