Flexbox exercise
- [Instructor] We've just covered some general usage and syntax for various Flexbox sizing properties. Now let's take a closer look at how to use them in a CodePen example. Let's start by adding display flex to define the flex container. All the child elements have become flex items and align in a row. They also become the same width as their content. We can also see that there is extra space in the container. Now let's look at how we can change the sizing by adding the flex property. The first value, flex grow, defaults to zero. That means it will not expand to fill any extra space. If we change the value to one. All the flex items will now expand by the same amount to fill up the space. Since we're applying the same flex grow value to all of flex items, using a value of two or three or any number other than one won't make much of a difference. But if I wanted one of the items to have twice the amount of extra space applied to it, I can do that by applying the style to just the specific flex item. I'll add a second class of item one to the first item, item dash one. Then we'll add in the flex grow property style with a value of two. Now, the first item will get twice the amount of the remaining space applied to it as long as there's enough space to be distributed. The second value in the flex property represents the flex shrink value. The default is one, so if there isn't enough space in the container, all flex items will shrink by the same amount. Let's add a width value set to something smaller. I'll use 300 pixels. Now we can see the items shrink to fill the space to stay in the same row. If we were to change the value to zero, this means the items won't shrink at all, and since the container is smaller than the width of all the content, it will overflow. We can set the flex wrap to wrap so the longer items will move to a second row. In this case, even with the wrap, the longer block of text still overflows because it's set to not shrink. This leads us to the third value, flex basis, which is used to set the initial size of the flex item. It has a default value of auto, which means flex items are the size of its content. If I change it to a hundred pixels, then all the flex items will be set to a minimum of a hundred pixels instead. Now the overflowing content will fit in the container as long as it's at least 100 pixels wide. We set the width of the container to 300 pixels and the flex basis to 100 pixels, so there should be enough room for three items per row. So why is it only showing two? Well, that's because by default, the width of an element is sized using the content box. If we were to set the box sizing property to border box, the width of the flex item will now include the padding and border when calculating its overall width. Now, three items will fit in the first row, and since there are only two remaining items, the flex grow value of one is being applied to fill the remaining space. The flex basis value applies to the width if the flex items are displayed as rows. If I use flex direction and change it to columns, the flex basis will then apply to the height of the flex items. If that felt like a lot to take in, that's because it is a lot. Flexbox has given us many new layout options, and there's still more to learn, but you don't need to know everything to begin using it. In the upcoming lessons, we'll look at how to incorporate Flexbox into our project.