Project: Sticky footer with flexbox
(upbeat music) - [Narrator] In this update, we'll apply what we learned about the flex property to our projects. Currently, the homepage looks like this. To keep the footer at the bottom of the page even when the content is short, we'll create what is commonly referred to as a sticky footer. We'll use the flex property to expand the content container to fill the space in the middle to push the footer down to the bottom of the page. Because the height of the content and footer as well as the browser window are not set to a specific fixed height, this is a great opportunity to use flex box for flexible sizing. Let's go back to the editor and take a look at the current HTML structure of the homepage. Here's how we'll implement the sticky footer. All the content is contained within this content wrapper div. The footer is contained in its own footer tag. I'll just collapse this block so that we can see these containers a little more easily. Body is the parent element of both the content wrapper and the footer, so we're going to set the body element to be the flex container which will make the content wrapper and the footer the flex items. Then we'll apply the flex property to size these items. Let's switch over to the CSS file. The first step in creating a sticky footer is to set the height of the viewport to a hundred percent, but we've actually already included that in the background image exercise, so no need to update anything here. Next, we'll initiate the flex layout and define the flex container. So let's go back down to the home section and use the home selector to apply this to only the body element on the homepage. We'll add a display of flex and we'll also add flex direction set to column so we can change the height of the flex item. Let's save the files and see how it looks. The height of the flex items haven't changed yet, but there was some space just before and after the content wrapper. Adding the flex layout made the content wrapper fill up the current space. Here's what it would've looked like if we didn't change the direction to column. It would have defaulted to aligning the items into rows so we definitely want to keep the flex direction set to column. The next step is to use flex to size only the content wrapper. Let's take a look. We just want this element to flex to fill up the remaining space to push the footer down. To do this, we'll apply the flex property to the home content wrapper selector. Start with the flex grow value set to one. This will expand the content wrap to fill the available space, and then we'll set the shrink value to zero to prevent the content wrap from getting smaller. Then for the flex basis value, we'll set it to auto and the declaration with the semicolon. These values will ensure that the content wrapper will be at least the height of its content and not any smaller and will expand to take up the available space. Let's save the file and refresh the browser. Now the sticky footer is working, but since the background color was applied to the content wrapper, the color now spans the entire section as well. Before we added flex, the content wrapper div was the same height as the content, so adding the background color there gave us the effect we were looking for, but now that it spans the height of the available space, we're going to have to add another container. Let's go back to the HTML file and make an update. In index.html, we'll create another div inside of the content wrapper. This is where we'll apply the background color to instead. Move the closing div just after the main tag but just before the content wrapper div. I'm going to reformat it and add the class. Since I'm just going to be using this for the background color, I'll call it content-bg. Now, let's go over to the CSS file and add the content BG selector. Let's move the background style to this container div instead. Let's save this file and check the update. Now, the background color is applied to just the text content and the flex is applied to the content wrapper. We just need to add a little padding to this new container so the text doesn't line up right to the edge. Let's go back to the CSS file and add some padding. I'm going to go with 30 pixels. Let's see how this looks. Save the file and refresh the browser. Even though I added 30 pixels of padding around all four sides of the content box, there appears to be more spacing at the top and the bottom, and that's because the H1 and the paragraphs have default margin. We can see this more clearly if we open up the dev tools. There's the margin in the H1, and here is the margin in the paragraphs. There are still some adjustments I'd like to make with these default margin values, but as mentioned before, we'll make these updates when we implement the typography styles later in the course.