Aligning flex items
- [Instructor] Prior to Flexbox, there were options for center-aligning elements horizontally, but getting elements to align vertically required a few hacks. With Flexbox, two new properties were introduced to achieve this effect. The justify-content property aligns the flex items on the main axis. The align-items property aligns flex items on the cross axis. To center-align a flex item vertically and horizontally, set the value to center for both properties, and that's it. No workarounds required. But these two properties can do a lot more than just center-align items. They can also be used to distribute space between and around the items. Let's look at a demo in CodePen. Right now, we have three list items contained in an unordered list. They're block items, so by default, they stack on top of each other and are the same width as the container. Let's add display flex to initiate the flex layout and define the flex container. Now, the items will be displayed in a row with each item the same width as the content and the same height as the container. Let's add in the first style, justify content with a value of flex-start. We won't see a change because this is the default value. To justify a content property controls alignments of all items on the main axis, and flex-start aligns the flex items to the main start which is the left edge. But if we change it to flex end, the items will now align to the main end, which is the right edge. Center aligns the items in the middle. Space between aligns the first and last item at the start and end of the axis then distributes the remaining space evenly among the items. Space around distributes the same space on the left and right side of each item. That's why it looks wider in the middle area because half of this space is added to the right of the first item and the other half is added to the left of the second item. Space evenly distributes equals space between each items. Unlike the flex-grow and flex-shrink properties, these alignment styles don't change the size of the flex items. It just redistributes the space around them. Align-items distributes space in the cross axis, which runs from top to bottom. The default style displays the items stretched to the height of the container, which is represented by the stretch value. So, by adding the value in now, we won't see a change. Let's add in the center value instead. Now the items are vertically aligned in the center, and since we removed the stretch value, the height of each flex item is now the same as the content. Now, let's look at flex-start. This value will align the items to the cross start of the container, which is the top, and flex end will align the items to the cross end, which is the bottom. These are some of the commonly used values for these properties, but there are actually more values for both of these properties. To learn more, check out the extra resources included in the Links.pdf file.