Project: Aligning elements with Flexbox
- [Instructor] In this project exercise, we'll use Flexbox to align the content in the social media items in the footer. Let's switch over to the editor and add display flex to the footer element. Let's save this file and check this update. Just by adding Flex, the layout is initiated and the flex items are automatically aligned in a row. So that's a start, but let's align the social media list to the right side and leave the content on the left side. We should also add some padding space to the left and right sides of the footer to prevent the text and the icons from lining up to the edge. Back to the editor. The flex items need to be aligned on the main axis so let's use justify content. Then we'll use a value of space between. Space dash between. This will align the first and last flex items to the start and end of the axis. We can also add some padding, zero to the top and bottom then space, then 20 pixels to the left and right. Save the file and refresh the browser. Now the two flex items are aligned on the left and right sides of the footer. Let's make a couple more changes to the icons by adding some space between them. Since we've already added padding to the right side of the footer container, we can add just a margin left to each of the icons just to give it a little more space. We can also add a hover effect on the icon links. Back in the CSS file, use the socials LI selector to add margin to the list items containing the icons. We'll just add a little space on the left side, I'll go with 10 pixels. For the hover effect since we're using an icon image let's add some transparency. We'll need a new declaration block, socials IMG with the hover pseudo class. Remember, when using pseudo classes don't include any spaces between the selector and the hover pseudo class. To add transparency, we'll use the opacity property. This can be used with a value between zero and one or a percentage between zero and a hundred. I'll use 0.5, which adds a transparency of 50%. Let's check these changes in the browser. Now when we hover over the link we can see the opacity change. This gives it a subtle dynamic effect. Also note that when you hover over the link the cursor changes into a finger pointing cursor. This is to help indicate that you can click on it. When you add padding to an element, it adds space inside of an element which extends this clickable area. This is a small difference but it can reduce the chances of the user clicking on the wrong link because they were too close to the edge of another clickable area and that's why I use margin instead. So in this little space, you can't click on it but when you hover over the icon, you can. So far we've implemented various layout styles using float, display and Flexbox. In the upcoming lessons, we'll explore one more layout option, CSS Grid.