Intro to CSS Grid
- [Instructor] Before there was CSS Grid, grid-based layouts were a common part of web design. Grids are divided into evenly spaced columns with gutters to add consistent spacing between them. The grid then serves as a guide for laying out page components by arranging them within the columns. CSS Grid is a layout method that makes it possible to create grid-based designs that previously required hacks and other workarounds. Let's go over some grid terminology. Similar to the Flexbox layout, the grid container is the parent element. The direct child elements are the grid items. To begin using a grid layout, start by defining the grid container with the display property with either the grid or inline-grid value. Both will designate the child elements as grid items which will display in a single column. When using the value of grid, the width of the items by default will span the width of its container. When using the value of inline-grid the width will span the width of its content. Similar to Flexbox, when using the value of grid the container will be displayed as a block element and stack on top of other block elements. When using the value of inline-grid the container will be displayed inline next to other inline elements. There are also many parts that make up the grid. Grid lines are the horizontal and vertical lines that divide the grid into columns and rows. They're also used to determine the position of grid items and are referred to by a numerical index or a custom name. Both the vertical and horizontal grid lines start at one. A negative numerical index can also be used to reference the opposite end of the grid. A grid cell is a single unit defined by where the grid row and column intersect. A grid track is basically the grid column or row. Grid tracks can also be separated by a gutter. Grid items can also be placed into grid areas. It may span over one or more grid cells. Unlike the grid track, this can span across rows and columns. When using the grid layout columns and rows can be defined in adaptive ways by using explicit and implicit grids. This will be explored in the upcoming lessons.