The explicit grid
- [Instructor] When using the CSS grid layout, the number of grid tracks can be defined with two properties, grid template columns and grid template rows. These properties are declared in the grid container and each value is separated by a space and represents the number of grid tracks. This will create an explicit grid. The grid layout also introduced a new flexible length unit, fr, which represents a fraction of the available space in the grid container. For example, if grid template columns is set to 1fr three times, the grid will split the available space into three columns each with the same width. If the value is set to 1fr, 2fr, 1fr, the grid items will still be arranged into three columns, however, the second track will take up twice the amount of space as the first and third tracks. Values that are repeated can also be defined using the repeat function value. Instead of writing 1fr three times, add the number of tracks you want to create within the parentheses, followed by a comma, then the size of the track. The repeat function can be used with other value types. In this example, the first column will have a fixed width of 50 pixels, and the following two columns will split the remaining space equally. Let's put this together in an example. The first step is to define the grid container by adding display grid to the parent element. There won't be any visual changes just yet, but we can now apply the grid properties to the child elements. Now let's add in the grid template columns property, each set to a width of 100 pixels. Since this will create three columns, box four, five, and six will wrap onto a second row. Adding grid template rows with two values of 100 pixels will create two rows that are 100 pixels in height. Let's update the grid template columns value using the repeat function. Add the number of columns in the parentheses then a comma and a width value. The grid should look the same since we haven't changed the dimensions, just the value type. Using the repeat function makes it easier to add or remove columns because you only have to change the first value. Let's put it back to three columns. But instead of using pixels for sizing, let's use the new flexible fr unit instead. To create three equal columns relative to the size of the container, set the value to 1fr. Now let's try using the repeat function with other values. I can set the first column to a fixed size of 100 pixels. Then use the repeat function to create two equal columns set to 1fr. The remaining space will be split evenly between these two columns. The fr unit is relative to the size of the grid container. Right now, it's the same size as the view port. But if we add a width to the grid container, the columns set with the fr unit will be sized accordingly. So far we've been making changes using grid template columns but these value types and units can also be used with grid template rows. Right now, there are two values indicating two rows with the height of 100 pixels, let's delete one of those values. The second row is now the same height as its content instead of 100 pixels because we've only declared one explicit row value. Any items that are within the grid container, but are placed outside of the explicit grid, will be placed into an implicit grid and will be sized according to those rules, which we'll discuss in the next lesson. We'll also continue with this pin, so keep it open.