The implicit grid
- [Instructor] When using a grid layout, grid template rows and grid template columns are used to define a fixed number of tracks to form an explicit grid. Once the explicit grid is filled, or if no explicit grid has been defined, the grid container will create an implicit grid. If you have dynamic content such as a newsfeed, search results, or a list of comments, you don't always know ahead of time how many items you need to display. In this scenario, using an implicit grid is a good option. To define the size of implicit grid tracks, use the grid auto rows and grid auto columns properties. They use the same values and syntax as grid template rows and grid template columns. Let's continue with the pen from the previous lesson. Here is where we left off. We had six grid items, but only defined three columns and one row in the explicit grid. So items four to six are placed in an implicit row. The height of the rows in the implicit grid have adjusted to the height of their content. Let's pretend we have a blog and we want to show thumbnails for posts from the current month. We know there will always be at least three posts, but we want to make sure there's room for more. Also, we want the three most recent posts to be displayed in a larger box in the first row. Let's use a combination of an explicit grid and an implicit grid to create this layout. For grid template columns, let's change the value back to three equal columns. We'll take out this first value and just update the repeat function to three. We'll stick with one value for grid template rows to define the size for the first row which will be for the recent posts. I'll change it to 200 pixels just to make it a little bit bigger. Then for any number of older posts, we'll add grid auto rows to set the height for items that will be placed in the implicit row. Let's set that value to 800 pixels. Now, once the explicit row has been filled, the remaining items are placed into an implicit row. Let's hide the last three items in the HTML panel and see what happens. We won't see any empty tracks because the implicit grid values will only apply when there are items placed outside of the explicit grid. Let's put those items back into the HTML and add three more items. I'll just copy these three and add them to the bottom. Now, any additional items outside of the first explicit row will automatically be added to the implicit grid. If you don't know how many items your grid needs to display, you can create a whole grid using only an implicit grid. If you know the minimum amount of grid items, you can use an explicit and implicit grid together.