Project: Adding columns with Grid
(upbeat music) - [Instructor] In this project update, we'll use CSS grid to change the Work Experience section into a two-column layout with the job details in the first column and the job summary in the second column. Let's start in the resume.html file. In the Work Experience section, each job is contained within their own section block. This can be the grid container. Let's add a class to the section element. I'll call it work-item. For the content, we'll need to group them into two containers to create two columns, one for the general job details and one for the summary. If we don't create these containers, each one of these elements will become grid items, and that's not what we want. We just want two columns, so let's add some divs to create these containers. The first div will contain the job title, company name, and date. Let's move the closing div just after the date. Then we'll add a class. I'll call this work-details, and the rest of the content will go into a second div. I'll call this one work-summary. Each job item needs to be updated with the same classes and divs, so I'll copy the work-item class and paste it to each section element. I find that copying rather than manually typing out each one helps me to reduce typos. Then I'll go back and add the divs, starting with the work-details. I'm going to copy the opening div and class and paste it in the next section. In VS Code, the closing div tag is automatically added, but I'm going to finish pasting all of these divs first, and then I'll go back and move the closing divs. Okay, so this is the last item. I'm going to move the closing div and reformat. Now let's do the same for the work-summary. Make sure to reformat the indentation as you go along. When adding new containers, it's easy to miss a closing tag or put it in the wrong spot, so doing a check before adding CSS can help reduce errors, so one thing you could do is collapse the code blocks, or if you click on an opening div, you can see the highlighted closing div. Now that the HTML structure is all set up, let's switch over to the CSS file to define the grid container. Under the Work Experience section, add a new declaration block with the work-item selector. Then we'll add display: grid here to define this element as the grid container. Then we'll create two columns by using the grid-template-columns property with two values. We can use the fr unit to make it flexible. The first one should be smaller than the second one, so let's set it to 1fr, space, 2fr. This will make the second column twice the size of the first column. Save the files, and switch over to the browser, and check these updates. If your work details content is short, you'll see some space in between the columns, but since I have some with longer content, I can see that it's lining right up to the second column. We should add a gutter so there will always be space between the columns, but before we do that, let's open the developer tools and inspect the grid properties. Right-click Inspect or Inspect Element. I'm still using Firefox, but other browsers will have similar functionality. In the HTML panel, click on any of the work-item tags. Now we can see the corresponding CSS. We can also see some options for visualizing the grid layout. Some browser dev tools will have all these panels collapsed, so you may have to select the Layout tab to see the grid inspector. Firefox has the option to show the CSS in its own panel and the layout in another panel. In the HTML panel, we can see that the section tag has been marked with a grid label. If you click on the label, it will highlight the selected grid item in the viewport. You can also check the items in the grid inspector as well to highlight these grid items. There are also other grid display settings. For example, if I select Display line numbers, now I'll be able to see the grid lines as well as the numerical index. I often use borders and background colors as visual aids while building out my pages, but using the dev tools and seeing this visualization really helps to see all of the grid components. Also, being able to change the CSS in the dev tools is super-handy for testing and experimenting with styles and seeing how they look right away. For example, we currently have the first column set to 1fr, but I can see that 1fr is really close to the size of the project thumbnails, so let's update the grid-template-column value to 300 pixels, so the first column will match to the size of the thumbnail image. I don't need the second value to be twice the amount of the remaining space anymore, but I still do want it to be flexible, so I'll change the second value to 1fr to represent one fraction of the available space in the grid container, meaning it will always take up the remaining space. I can also add the column-gap property in here to see how much space to add. Just click in any blank area, and a cursor will appear. Add the column-gap property and a colon. For the value, let's try 10 pixels. That added some space, but I'd like a little more. I'll increase it to 20 pixels. That looks much better to me. For this layout, I chose a fixed gutter size because I don't need it to be relative to its container. I always want it to be 20 pixels of space between the columns, regardless of the container size. Also, remember, changes made in the dev tools don't affect the CSS file and will be reset when the browser is refreshed, so don't forget to add these styles to the CSS file. Let's do that now. We'll update the grid-template-column values to 300 pixels and 1fr. Then we'll add the column-gap property with a value of 20 pixels. Then save the file, and check to make sure that we added everything in. I still have my dev tools open, so I can see in the CSS panel and grid inspector that the styles have been added. In a previous project update, we floated the images in the project section. The content on my page is shorter than the image, so it looks like a two-column layout, but if the content was longer than the image, the text would wrap underneath. If you don't want the text to flow underneath, you can use this grid technique we just covered or flexbox, as we did in the footer exercise. Typically, a combination of layout methods are used, and every project is unique. Finding the best solution requires practice and experience. This is all part of the process.