Initializing a project with Vite
- [Instructor] The tool that we're going to be using to set up our project is called Vite. Vite is a tool that will allow us to generate a React application and have some built-in tooling set up for us. So let's go to VS Code and make sure we're in the right directory. I'm going to type cd to change directory and then I'll drag O2_01b over here. Hit Enter and now I know I'm in the right spot. Next, I'm going to run the command that's going to create the Vite project. So we'll type npm create vite@latest. We'll call this react-project. We'll use a dash dash and then dash dash again this time followed up with template react. So Vite has a bunch of different templates that you can use to get you started. It's asking you to do a couple more things now, so we're going to do some of them. We'll say cd react-project. And then I want to make sure that over here in 02_01b, I go to the React project. So I want to go over here to 01_01b inside of the React project and I want to open the package JSON. So the package JSON has all of the dependencies that I'm using in this project. I want to delete the dependencies for React. I want to hit Save. Then I want to reopen the terminal. So let me clear the terminal. We'll run npm install dash dash save dash exact react@rc and react-dom@rc. Okay, so now that I've done that, this has installed the most recent versions of React, so React 19, the release candidate, and now I can run npm install to run the rest of the packages. And then I can run based on these scripts that are here. I can run npm run dev. This is going to start my project over here on localhost:5173. In the browser, if I go to localhost:5173, this is going to show me my React project working. How cool is that? So then if I go back to our source, meaning if I open the files, I open the source directory and I open the app.jsx file. Now what I can do is I can say My React Project here inside of the h1 and then I'll see that that's changed. So this is going to be the file that we start to work with first as we go through the process of developing our React app. But this is pretty cool, we have something started and now we can take it from here.