Creating a React component
- [Instructor] Now that we have an understanding of how to create our React elements, we want to create our first component from scratch. Inside of this src folder, we have a file called App.jsx, and App is really our first component. Think of a component as being like a little building block. It's a piece of the user interface that we're going to use to describe one part of our application. So if I have a function called App here, then I can create another component. So let's go ahead and clean this up. We'll call this Hello React. And now on line 3, we'll create another component as a function. So a React component, all it is is a function that returns a little bit of UI. These are JSX tags, but we can think about these as being little HTML tags to wrap around our content using the same syntax that we're familiar with. So now what I can do is within my App, I can take the contents of the Header and place them here inside of this component. So check this out. I'm going to say return. Typically we wrap multiple levels of these tags with a set of parentheses, and then we're going to use the App component to render the Header. Nice. So now let's make sure that our App is running. We're going to cd into the React project. We're going to run npm run dev. This is going to spin up our Vite project here on 5173, and now we see, okay, we have our header here. If I right-click, I select Inspect, I can go to the React Components tab over here in my Developer Tools, and this is going to show me that this is the Header and the Header lives inside of the App. So let's add on to this a little bit. Right now our Header is nice, but we might want to have some additional content here. So to me it would feel like, all right, if we're going to render a couple things, then we probably can do so, like so. We could say, here we got our h2 that says something. Okay, so spoilers appear here in the fact that we have a bunch of squiggly red underlines under everything, letting us know that probably something is wrong. So if we go to the browser, let's see if there are any helpful hints for us. It says, adjacent JSX elements must be wrapped in an enclosing tag. So the reason for this is because we're trying to render these two elements at the same level. In order for this to work, all I need to do is I'm going to wrap this in those parens, and then I'm going to wrap the whole thing inside of a div. So now if we go back, we see all of these components. Again, it's useful to keep checking out your React Components Developer Tools just to show you what's what. So we're following the rules here. We're wrapping these adjacent tags in an enclosing tag, and then the App function is just going to render everything inside of that main component.