Adding component properties
- [Instructor] In the previous video, we created this Header component, and in this video, we want to take a look at how we can use components to display dynamic data. So let's take a look. We know that when we're using JSX, we can inject the names of variables into our components, but it's also possible to display dynamic data from a very important object called props. So let me show you what I mean. Here we have two components, App and Header. App is the parent component, It displays the Header component, which in this case is the child component, and what we want to do here is use properties to display some data. So check it out. We're going to say in the Header, we'll say name equals, and then we'll set that name to "Alex". You can use whatever name feels right. It can be your kitchen, absolutely. Now, before when we were using those curly braces, we just were able to inject the variable name, but it's already crossing it out. It seems like that's not going to work. Let's just prove that it won't over here for good measure. Let's run npm run dev, and at 5173, we see 's Kitchen, which isn't quite what we're trying to pull off. So instead, let's take a look at this. Let's console.log something called props, which we will pass in from the Header function on line three, we'll go back to localhost:5173. And let's open up the browser console. So this is showing us Object has a name, "Alex". So the way that we want to access this object is just by object literal notation. So let's say {props.name}'s, Kitchen. Our strikethrough is gone, so I feel like we're back in business. And now this value is being injected into the app. So when we render the component, we pass the properties into the component like we've done here on line 15. And then we can reference those properties on the props object that is passed in to each one of these values. So these can be anything. We could say, <p>Copyright {props.year}</p> and then we could say year equals, because it is a number, we'll wrap it in curly braces again this time when we pass that in as a property, unlike the string, which we pass in in double quotes, and now this is going to say Copyright 2024 or whatever year feels right. You could even do this, you could say new Date().getFullYear, and make that dynamic as well. So now we are referencing the properties in the right location. We have our child component. Let's get rid of that console.log so that we don't have to get rid of it later, but just know that we're passing down properties here, we're accessing those properties here as an argument that is sent to that function.