NoSQL wide column store type
- [Instructor] Let's talk about wide-column stores. So wide-column stores, or column family databases, are a subset of key-value NoSQL databases. They're like relational databases in some ways because they use tables, rows, and columns, but unlike relational, these dynamic columns can vary from row to row, so they're very different in that sense. Also, unlike relational databases, tables can be created, altered, even dropped, while the database is running. It's best to use these when you know the queries and model your tables around queries, instead of how we would do it in relational database modeling, where you're modeling your tables around the data. Wide-column stores can be used for very fast querying of specific parts of data, but not whole rows. So you have to really understand what you're going to be querying before you build this thing out because it can go really fast, but it is very specific on how you query, typically using primary keys and indexes. Overall, wide-column databases are great for dealing with extremely large amounts of data where speed is of utmost importance. It's great for big data when you're looking fast searching over huge amounts, like petrabytes of data, inventory management, and even analytics systems. Those are also popular use cases. A couple popular document databases include Cassandra and HBase. You'll probably run into those more often than any other. And let's look at this, this is what a wide-column NoSQL query looks like in Cassandra. This is Cassandra query language, CQL, not to be confused with SQL. Well, let's look at the bonus table. See, that's a table there. Note that the database model design is focused on the user's bonus, that query, versus the data as would be in a relational database management system. And the second example here shows a query in CQL, and if you're familiar with SQL, you'll notice the similarity there. Update customer set branch equals main dot dot dot, right? Very similar to SQL.