Challenge: Which NoSQL database is right for the job
(upbeat music) - [Instructor] All right, it's time to put what we learned to the test. Which NoSQL database is right for the job? So let's consider a few scenarios given what we now know and see if we can determine which NoSQL database might be best suited for the particular job. And we're just going to assume we need a NoSQL database, because we need a fast and scalable solution. So first up, we have social networking. We're creating a site, we want to traverse relationships between users, their actions and the like. Which NoSQL database might be right in this scenario? Remember the four that we discussed. We have wide-column, document, key-value, and graph. Next, we want a leaderboard. So you have a game site, large amounts of data, and you want a really simple look query to show a leaderboard. Which of the four types might be suitable here? Next, this scenario, we have huge, huge, huge amounts of data, and we already know what the queries are going to look like. And you can model your data around the queries. which NoSQL solution seems appropriate given this scenario? And finally, we're creating a large CMS system. It's a general purpose kind of CMS, wide variety of data types. Which NoSQL database might likely be appropriate here? Okay, join on in for the next video. We're going to discuss the solution.



Solution: Common jobs for each type of NoSQL store
(upbeat music) - [Instructor] It's time for our solution. The common jobs for each type of NoSQL store. So what we did is we looked at a bunch of scenarios for NoSQL databases and tried to figure out which of the four types would be right for a certain scenario, or mostly right for a certain scenario. So the first one was social networking. And the social networking site where we need to traverse relationships quickly is best for a graph database. A graph database where we have nodes and edges and we have relationships stored there. So that's the answer there. Next step, did you get key-value for the leaderboard? Because we're looking at some really simple, fast queries, right? Keys, values, user score, right, to create a leaderboard here. So key-value database would typically be the best solution for a leaderboard with simple data. Now, next up, this might've been a little confusing. Large amounts of data should have really set off an alarm for you in known queries. When you have huge amounts of data in these known inquiries, a wide-column is typically the best solution in this scenario. And finally, we have our CMS. General purpose, we need some variety of general data types. Typically document stores are best in this scenario.