Git to share code
- [Instructor] Let's look at another scenario where Git can help you out. Have you ever tried to share a file with code with a coworker or with a friend? Here we have our file, Code1. We want to make sure that someone else has access to it. You might want to send it through email, but anyone who has ever tried that knows that it will often be caught up in the spam filter. So you could use workarounds, like change the extension and ask the other person to change the extension back, but it will always get messy. So what other options do we have? Do we use USB sticks? That's really a bit old-fashioned at this point. You can do it in SharePoint, but again, there might be issues with spam, and it could get messy if people start working in the same file. So this is where Git comes in. So here we have our file on our local computer. And here we have our friend or coworker who has their own computer, and we want the code to get to their computer. And here's our Git provider. What we can do is make our code public, so anyone can read it. Or we can add our coworker or friend to the space we are working in, which we call a repository. By doing this, they get access to our code, and they can get this code to their computer. So they can either download it directly from the web interface, or they can install Git themselves and use it for their own version control while they're working in this repository. So this is how Git can help you when you want to share some code with someone else.