Open source
- Git is great for the process of open-source software. Open source means that all the code behind the software is publicly available, and you are able to see it and change it. So you could download it or change it for your own use. What you will often see with open source is that the community works on the code together. So when someone who uses the code find that they might need a different feature or they see a bug, they can report it, but they can also change it themselves. We already talked about how Git can help you collaborate. Let's see how that works with open-source software where a lot of people might be working on code at the same time. Let's look at our earlier scenario where we have a Git provider storing our code and two people are working on it. This setup went well, but what happens when we expand this scenario? Imagine multiple users trying to change the code all at once. You can see how this can quickly become very chaotic. And let's not forget the code at the provider is the source code that is running in production. So you might not want everyone to have the ability to make changes. You wouldn't want to break production code. This is where branches come into play. Let's see how that works. Here we have our computer, and our code is stored in the Git provider. We want to make some changes. But as I mentioned earlier, we don't want to do that directly in the code itself because it might be running in production, and many other people are already using it. So we create a branch, which is a copy of the code. This branch exists side by side with the original code. It is a direct copy, but nothing that we do in the branch will affect the original code. Now we pull that branch to our local computer and start making changes. When we want to create a snapshot of our code, we push it back to the Git provider, but this time to the branch instead of the main code. We can repeat this process several times. When we're ready and confident that we want these changes to be part of the production code, we can merge them. This is often done through a pull request, allowing others to review the changes before they are added. Once this is completed, we can delete the branch we're working on. When we change our local environment back to the original branch, we will see the new code there as well. In the end, the situation is exactly the same as if we had worked on the main code from the start. However, by working on a separate branch, we maintain consistency in the production code, and we have our own workspace within a larger project.