Understanding the React compiler
- [Instructor] The new React Compiler, which is code named React for Git, is one of the most anticipated features in React 19. And they built this playground that you can use to see how your React code goes from a component to a function that is really optimized for the browser to be as fast as possible. The tool that you can use to work with this is found at playground.react.dev. As soon as we head over there, it's going to append this long, unique string to the end of it, and you also can share these with other people. So we can use this to create our own React Component over here. So we'll say return, and we want to return a header. Inside that header, we return an H1 that says, "Hello New React Compiler." (keys clicking) So as soon as I do that, we're going to see that it spits out this function over here. And this is really what our browser is going to be running versus this over here. So think of React as being a compiled language. It's something that takes our React function that's written with JSX or JavaScript as XML, and it transforms it into something that is optimized for the browser. If you've used previous versions of React, where we used useMemo and useCallback, these were hooks that we used to prevent unnecessary re-renders. But writing those hooks was error prone and sort of annoying honestly because we would have to think about those every step of the way. React is abstracting a lot of that back to the language layer, so that when we compile, it'll automatically be optimized for production so that we can focus on just writing our components and letting React do the heavy lifting of transforming our code into something that's as fast as possible. So the React Compiler is already in production and has been at Instagram, and we'll see this more and more as we adopt React 19 in our projects.