Setting up Chrome tools for React
- [Instructor] To get ready to work on React Projects, a great place to start is to install the React Developer Tools. These are available for both Chrome and Firefox. So in Chrome here we're going to navigate to the Chrome Web store, and from here I need to search for and install the React Developer Tools. I'll select Add to Chrome, I'll say add extension, and these have been added to our extensions now. Up in the upper right hand corner, you can see this. If you see it go away, you can always click on it and expose that. What this is telling us is that this page is not using React. But if I go to a website that I know uses React, like the React documentation, I'm going to see that the React Developer Tools, this little logo is filled in now. And if I also open up my developer tools by clicking on Inspect. I'll right click inspect. I'll click on the little arrows over here. And this will open up Components. All of these components, these are the little building blocks of this page. We can always inspect these elements and this can help us with debugging. We also see another tab here called the Profiler. Sometimes it says Profiling is not supported because we aren't currently in development, but this is going to be useful for us as we continue to work on these projects. Again, you'll always see this logo filled in if you're on a page that has React running. And of course you won't see it if you're on a page that doesn't. There also are React Developer Tools for Firefox. If you're a user of Firefox, you can always come over here to the Mozilla add-ons. This will take you through the process of installing those there. All right, there we go. Our Chrome browser is now ready to develop some real projects using React.