Working with VS Code
- [Instructor] To work on the files in this course, you will need a code editor of some sort. You can use whatever code editor feels right to you, but I will be using VS Code. So something that might be useful. You can go up to code, settings, and then extensions. Then you can search for Prettier and I already have this installed, but you can click on the install button and then this will be installed. Basically Prettier is a code formatter that you can use to ensure that your style is consistent across all of your projects. From here what we can do is go to code, settings, settings, and you can search for format on save. Just make sure that format on save is selected. So anytime you click save, it will format for you. So the final thing I want to do, the question that I get asked the most in courses is, what is the code theme that you're using? The theme I use is something called Night Owl. If you install Night Owl and you say set color theme, this will be your theme across your projects. It's a nice accessible theme that looks nice and is highly readable. So once you install this, there is also a Light Owl theme. So if you'd prefer light mode, this will give you that option. While I'll be using VS Code, that's certainly not a requirement. You can always go to the browser and go to react.new. This will open up a new CodeSandbox that you can use to create your project. So think of CodeSandbox as just being an in-browser editor that you can use to do all the same things. This will generate a new React project that's going to match exactly what we are working on in our local version. So you can go to the source and go to index. From here, you can always collapse that background with command B, so that'll collapse all of your files and then you can zoom in and see the latest changes that you add. So all of this is our code. This is the window that's going to give us a preview of what that code looks like, and you can always sign in with GitHub, Google, or Apple to make sure that you hang on to those latest changes. All right, so that is everything that we'll need to get started. In the next video we're going to generate our project.