Humans, software, and community
- [Instructor] In preparation for this course, I talked to my colleagues and industry peers about how they search for and find information they need for their work. I also took an introspective look at my own process. One thing that immediately stood out in every interaction was how important the human element is to successful search. Knowing where the community for whatever software or application or framework or coding language you are working for is and who the leaders of that community are is central to being able to find answers. Shouldn't be that surprising really. Writing code is a human endeavor and humans thrive when they're able to interact with each other around subjects of shared interest. So after all this talk of authoritative sources and mastering search technologies, let's look at that human element, how to find relevant communities, join those communities, ask questions and contribute answers to the communities, and help grow the body of knowledge of whatever it is you work with. I speak from personal experience here. The reason why I'm in a studio talking to my monitor right now and you're listening to me on your computer at some point in the future is because someone invited my wife to a launch event for some new software many years ago and I tagged along. At that event, I met a program manager who encouraged me to try the new software and I said I would. Because no meaningful documentation existed, I started a blog documenting my own work with the software. That blog caught the attention of the software developers who started talking directly to me, which led to a book deal, which encouraged me to get involved with a bunch of open source projects and lend my experience where needed from which I learned a lot about a lot of different web technologies and how to find answers on how to use them, which eventually led me to this moment. So yeah, the human factor is probably the most important factor when it comes to finding the information you need. Let's explore.