Finding your people
- [Instructor] The first question, especially if you're new to the industry or to a specific tool, or application, or framework, or language is, where do I find my people? The quick answer is close to the software, but that's a bit too simplistic, so here are some tips for myself and others on how to find your people and your communities. As with search in general, start with the main source. Say for example, you want to get started with Svelte, an alternative to React and Vue, which is based on server-side rendering. The first place to go is the main website. This is where you'll usually find official documentation and breaks down on how to get started, and other information that's relevant to working with the application. For Svelte, for example, the documentation sits under svelte.dev/docs. Your inclination is probably to first dig into the documentation on work on your own for a bit, and then maybe start looking at the forums. My recommendation is to instead jump right in. Once you know where the documentation is, go looking for whatever official community or support forums exist and join them. As of this recording, for Svelte, there's an open Discord channel that you can join any time with just a simple Discord login. Once inside, read the rules for participation, and then look at what types of conversations are going on. These types of chats often have an intro channel, or similar, and have different tracks for different types of conversations. Being a new user and popping into one of these channels can feel really intimidating, but generally speaking, communities like this are welcoming and eager to involve new members. The best advice I can give you is to jump in, introduce yourself, and get to know the particular culture of that community. Looking at what's being posted in documentation and in community chats, you quickly get a picture of who the community leaders are and who the resources are, and you can follow them on social media, like LinkedIn and Twitter, to see what they talk about and what types of content they share. This gives you a broader perspective of what info is available and where to find it. My general approach is to start by following the creators and main contributors to any application, and then follow the breadcrumbs they leave behind in their social media adventures, who they talk to, what they talk about, and so on, and then broaden my scope from there. Another good tip is to join community events, either online or in-person and look up videos and other publications from older events. This is usually where the latest and greatest about the technology is being shared. And again, it gets you further into the community. Spending time in the community, whether online or in-person or both, will lower barriers and open doors. So when you have a question, instead of blindly searching the web for an answer, you can just reach out and ask someone directly, and you're very likely to get an answer.