Ask questions and start conversations
- [Instructor] A teacher once told me there's no such thing as a bad question, only bad answers. And I try my best to live up to that principle, both as an instructor and as a human being. In my experience, every time someone builds up the courage to ask a question, there are 10 others who also want the answer, but never dared ask. This is especially true when we talk about software and the internet, because there will always be someone just getting started, who will have whatever question you have. And while there are lots of people who have asked a question similar to yours, there's no guarantee that answer is easy to find or that your particular variant of the question has been sufficiently answered. That's a really, really long winded way of saying, 'If you have a question, do not hesitate to ask it.' Throughout my career, I've often caught myself thinking, I shouldn't ask a question because it's too stupid or too simple or too uninformed that will make me look in competent or for some other reason. And when that happens, I remind myself that if I have a question, someone else has that same question and if nobody asks it, no one will answer it. So I just ask. And more often than not an answer will come. Sometimes that answer is already asked and answered, see this link. Other times the answer is, 'Hmm, I don't think you understand this at all. So maybe go read the documentation here at this link and then come back later.' But in most cases, the question will start a conversation and an answer or maybe many answers will emerge. And in some rare cases, the question turns out to be an unanswered or even unanswerable one, and a new idea or project or feature is started. Let me share a super advanced, extra special mega pro tip with you. One of the most effective ways of getting the answer you need is not to do a search, but to reach out to leading experts in your field on social media. As in literally ping them on LinkedIn or Twitter or somewhere else with the question. In many cases, they'll answer, often, immediately because it turns out famous developers are actually just people who are super interested in their subject matter and equally interested in talking about it. And contrary to what you probably think, and I say this because this is what I always think, they don't really care how famous you are, in almost every case, they care about helping their community, meaning you, find the answers they're looking for. So when I have a question and I have a lot of questions, I ping the people at the top of the pyramid to see if they'll respond. Very worst thing that can happen is they ignore me and my question. What usually happens is they answer or point me somewhere where I can find the answer. And I know what you're going to say now. 'But Morton, you're a known entity in the space. I'm just a random person. So I won't get an answer.' Trust me my friend. To the people I pain with random questions that are often uninformed and confused and not quite there, I'm just a random person as well. They still answer because one of the most fulfilling things you can experience as a professional is helping someone else solve a problem and then seeing them succeed.