Ask for help, directly
- [Instructor] Building on that whole reach out to the leaders of your community with questions part, I'm going to take this one step further. Remember how I said GitHub is a great place to find information. Well, if you publish your code on GitHub, it's also a great place to get help, often directly from those same leaders of your community. The reason GitHub has become such a dominant force in the coding space is it allows everyone to upload code and then anyone else to contribute to that code. So if you have code you can share and you post it on GitHub, you made it very easy for others to help you with issues or even contribute directly to the code. Here's how it can work, and again, I'm basing this on my own experience and that of my peers. A few years ago, I started a new project called WP Rig on GitHub. It was an experiment to see if I could build a modern framework for WordPress themes. In the beginning, it was only me writing code, but once I made it public, it didn't take long before people started noticing and contributing, and suddenly, these people I had never met who I knew nothing about were filing issues and even submitting pull requests with fixes and features and other things. This eventually led to us creating a group of maintainers who built the project together. Then one day we ran into a complex issue with one of the features we were using, and I jokingly said, we should just reach out to the lead developer and see if they can fix it for us. So I mentioned the developer in the issue and left it at that. A week later, a new pull request came in from the lead developer of the feature with a fix and an explanation of what was going wrong. When I then years later met this developer at a conference, he walked off to me and introduced himself, explaining that my question was a quote, interesting edge case, and he got really excited when I pinged him because he wanted to see if he could solve the problem. That's how GitHub works a lot of the time. You post up some code, or file an issue, or start a discussion, and someone else picks up where you left off and makes it their mission to solve the problem. That someone might even be me. The same rule applies here as to social media. Asking a leader of a project or someone at the top of the community pyramid for help on GitHub is not dangerous. The very worst thing that can happen is they ignore your request. And even if they do, someone else in the community might notice and chime in instead. Extending that question into the community forums can also result in others contributing because once your code is on GitHub, it's easy for others to see what you're doing, have discussions about it, and even contribute. That's the whole point of the platform. So again, do not hesitate to reach out, and don't be discouraged by apparent hierarchies and power structures. Seek a human connection, and you'll often find a person willing to help at the other end of your query.