Share your knowledge
- [Instructor] Th first time I searched for something on Google only to discover the top search result was something I had written myself was a pretty weird experience. It also proved to me something I'd been saying to others for a long time. Whenever you find a solution to a problem, documented on the internet so someone else can get right to the answer without doing all the work you just did. I just hadn't clued in yet that's sometimes that person, that someone else, would actually be myself. The evolution of the web and most technology really is an endless sequence of people building on the work of other people, building on the work of other people. As I explained at the very beginning of the course, the web platform evolves so rapidly that the best practical application documentation is often written by random developers like you and me who are on the ground, working with the technologies on a day-to-day basis. And the web platform evolves in large part by observing what people are doing and then shaping the technology to match the work and make it easier. That means even as an absolute beginner, you can make meaningful contributions to the web community in general, and the communities of whatever technology you are working on in particular. The best place to start is to document your journey and share what you learned along the way. That could be in a written blog or video or live streaming or in a social media posts or pictures or whatever you like, whatever fits your work process. The whole point is to write down what you learn, and then share it with the world. There are two reasons you should do this. First off, writing down what you learn makes you think about it in a new and different way than when you're actually doing it. And this reflection and the act of actually articulating what you've learned helps you solidify that learning for yourself. Teachers will tell you when a student is struggling with an assignment, getting them to explain their problem, and what they've done to someone else, either a teacher or another student, often helps them solve the problem. Because they have to think about the problem from a new perspective. That's what you do when you document your learning. You make sense of it for yourself. And that's also why you should do it if you run into a problem. Because sometimes writing down the problem and explaining what you've done actually leads you directly to the solution. If you go to my personal blog and jump all the way back to its beginnings, you'll see me do exactly that. And I still do whenever I come across a new challenge. The only difference is a lot of the time my format for documentation is now a LinkedIn learning course. The second reason you should document what you learn is it becomes a resource for someone in the future. That someone could be you. And if you make your materials public, it could be someone else that you'll never meet and never even know about. By documenting your learning and putting it onto the web, you contribute to the larger body of information. And no matter how minute or esoteric or edged casey or trivial your content is, chances are someone will eventually stumble upon it and learn something new. Also, if what you learn is of direct relevance to something like an open-source project, sharing it directly with the community, through community forums or social media, or even in official documentation makes you a bonafide contributor to the project itself. And that's how projects on the web evolve, by people like you and me contributing. So if you take away only one thing from this entire course, let it be this. Document your questions and the answers you find and share them with the world. Chances are your future self will thank you for it.