Challenge intro: Array manipulation
(upbeat music) - [Instructor] Arrays are used all the time in JavaScript and having a good handle on array manipulation gives you the capability to make arrays work for you. In this challenge, you're given an array called desk array that has a bunch of items. Your task is to use a sequence of array manipulations to change the contents of this existing array in a very specific order. I want you to first remove the last item from the array. Next, sort the remaining array items alphabetically, then move the last item of the array to the first position. Then find the USB drive item in the array and move it to the last position. And finally, find the laptop item in the array and remove it from the array. Yes, that's a lot. So if you go to the instructions, you can see the list here of what you need to do, and it's important that you do these things in order because otherwise you'll end up with an array that is structured the wrong way. Now, I'll be the first to admit this list of array manipulations looks a bit arbitrary, and it is because this is an example. But this type of sequential operation is common when dealing with arrays and JavaScript. To solve this challenge, go into the answer panel and scroll down till you find this function. Process array. Process array grabs the desk array array and then creates a new array called new desk array that has the same content as desk array. You'll be working with this new desk array the entire time. That way you're not tampering with the original array. Then when you're done with your manipulations, the new desk array is returned and displayed and the code will compare to see if your array matches the test code.


Solution: Array manipulation
(upbeat music) - [Instructor] For this challenge, we have a series of tasks that need to be executed in a specific sequence, so I've left the instructions open, so I can refer to it. All right, I'll scroll down to the processArray here, and we're placing our new code in between the comments. So number one, remove the last item from the array. For this, we can use the pop method. So I'll say newDeskArr.pop. This pops the last item off the array and returns it to us, so we can do something with it, but in our case, we just want to remove it, so I'll just leave it with that. Okay, number two, sort the remaining array items alphabetically. All right, so newDeskArr again. Here we can use the sort method. If we don't provide any parameters for it, it'll automatically sort the items alphabetically based on the first letter, which is what we want. All right, next, number three, move the last item of the array to the first position. All right, so here we have to do two things. First, we have to grab the last item of the array and pull it out of the array, we can do that with the pop method, and then we have to place it in the front. Now, to place something at the front of the array, we use the unshift method, so here we'll combine the two. So I'll say newDeskArr.unshift, and then inside unshift, I name what elements I want to move, and the elements I want to move is the one we pop off the end, so I'll say newDeskArr.pop. So here we have a method inside a method, we pop off the last item, and then place it in the first position. All right, number four, find the USB drive item in the array and move it to the last position. This is a two-step operation. First, we need to find the item, and we do that by finding the index number for the item, and then we need to insert that item somewhere else. So I'll start by setting up a new constant, and I'll call it usbIndex. And here, I'll grab newDeskArr, and then say indexOf, this will give us the index number for whatever item we're looking for, and in this case, I want USB drive. So now, our usbIndex constant will hold the index position of the USB drive item wherever it currently is in our array. Then, we'll use the push method to add an item to the back of the array, and the item in question will be identified using the splice method. So let's see here, I'll say newDeskArr.push, so this pushes a new item onto the last position. And then I'll say newDeskArr.splice, this grabs an item from a specified location, and that specified location is usbIndex, and we only want to grab one item. So we're saying go in and find the item that sits at this index position, grab only that one item and pull it out of the array, and then push it to the end of the array. Cool, now we have only one step left, find the laptop item in the array and remove it. So here we'll kind of do the same operation again, first find the item and then remove it. So I'll say const laptopIndex = newDeskArr again, and then indexOf and then laptop. And this time, we'll use the splice method without using the push method. So I'll just say newDeskArr.splice, and again, splice needs an index position and the number of items we want to pull out. So I'll say laptopIndex and we want to pull one item. And just like the pop method, this will grab the item out of the array and give it to us as a return, but since we're not doing anything with it, we'll just leave it at that, so we're pulling the item off the array. All right, let's test this and see if it's correct. The test passed, the output matches the test case, and here you see the new organized array, which is quite different from what we started with. That's it.