Use a Codespace for this course
- You will probably be using Git in your local environment, and the videos in this chapter will help you to make sure you can install and configure Git. But if you want to follow along with this course, I recommend making use of GitHub Codespaces. This is an online environment that will have a set configuration. That means that you will be able to have the same settings as I have, making it easier to follow along. You can focus completely on Git. After the course, you can keep using Codespaces for your projects, or you can easily switch to your local device. In order to use GitHub Codespaces, you are going to create a fork of the link in learning repository. Don't worry about how you do that now as we will get into that in a later video. In your repository, you click on the big green button that says Code. From here, check if you are in the tab for Codespaces. There we go. And now that we are, we click Create Codespaces on main. This will open up an editor for you. It might take a minute or two, so just wait for it to load. There's not a lot of configuration in this one, so it should load pretty quickly. Once you have this screen, you have the exact same environment as I will be using for this course. So it should be easier to follow along. Notice that the text in the editor might look a little different for you as instructions for using this repository might have been updated. If you ever run into issues with your Codespace, you can just delete it and create a new one like you did before. To delete the Codespaces, go back to the repository. You might have to refresh the page if it still shows it's opening the Codespaces. Once you did, you can press Code again, and here you can see the Codespaces that you are running. You can look for the three dots behind the Codespaces and then use Delete. We'll confirm. And now our Codespaces is deleted. We can close the tab with the Codespaces and create a new one to keep following along. In the next videos, I'm going to explain how you can install GI in your local environment. I recommend watching those videos for your setup so you can start using Git straightaway after this course.