Install Git on Windows
- [Instructor] In this video, we will walk through installing Git on a Windows device. If you use one for your coding, you can follow along. No matter what system you're using, Linux, windows, or macOS, the process starts at the same website, git-scm.com. You can also just search for Git in any search engine, and it will likely be the first result. The website has everything you need to know about Git, including detailed documentation. But for now, we're just here to download Git. On the homepage, it ultimately suggests the right download for your operating system. Since I am on a Windows machine, it's showing me the Windows download option. But if you need macOS or Linux, just click Downloads on the left and you'll find them there. For this example, we're going with download for Windows. When you click it, you'll see different installer options. If you're not sure which one to pick, just go with the default by clicking Click here to download. In most cases, this will work just fine. It's a small file, so it should download pretty quickly. Once it downloaded, you can open it directly from your browser or find it in your Downloads folder using File Explorer. This will launch the Git Setup wizard, which will make the installation process simple. If you're not sure what options to choose, you can safely just click Next, Next, Finish, and it'll apply the most commonly used settings. But let's take a quick look at what's available. The wizard really helps you as it explains the different options along the way. First, it'll ask you to read information about the license you're using. After you have read it, you can click Next. Now it asks us where we want to install Git. The default location is fine, so I'll leave it as it is. Next, we can choose optional components like desktop icons or update checks through Windows update. Again, the fold options are good for me, so I'll leave them as they are. Now the setup asks us if you want to create a Start Menu folder. This can be useful for quickly accessing Git related tools, so I'll keep this enabled. Then we need to select a default editor for Git. By default, it suggests Vim, but if you are used to Windows, Vim can be tricky to use. I am going to switch this to Visual Studio Code, as that is my favorite editor. Note that you do have to have Visual Studio Code installed on your computer if you want to use this. We click Next. Now Git asks us what we want to name the full branch when we initialize a repository. Historically, this was called master, But in recent years, main has become the standard, so I'll change it to main to keep things consistent. Next, we configure Gits path environment, which determines how we can run Git from the command line. Keeping the default option allows us to use Git in any terminal without specifying its location. So I'll leave it as it is. Next, we got some SSH settings. If you're new to Git, I recommend sticking with the defaults here as well. Finally, the wizard guides us to some detailed settings. For this course, we are going to keep everything at the default. At this point, we're ready to install. Clicking Install started the process. And once it's done, the Git setup Wizard will confirm that Git is installed. So the wizard confirms that Git has been installed. Let's check if everything is working. I'll open PowerShell and type git. If Git responds like this, it means it's installed and ready to use. If I want to see what version I am running, I can use git --version. And that's it. Git has now set up on your system and we can start working with it.


Install Git on Linux (PPT)
- [Instructor] In this video, we will see how we can install Git on a Linux device. If you want to install Git on Linux, you can start by going to the official website, git-scm.com. If you go to Downloads and then to Linux or Unix, you find a list of different Linux distributions along with installation instructions. Just look for the operating system you're using and follow the recommended command. For this example, I'm using Ubuntu. Now, the good thing about Ubuntu is that Git often comes pre-installed. You can check if it's already on your system by running git --version. And there we go. If you're using a fresh installation, you'll likely have the latest version. But if you have been using it for a while, there's a good chance your Git version is outdated. To update or install Git, you can run the following command: sudo apt-get install git. I can run it here and see I am already running on the latest version. So Git is successfully installed on our system, and it's time to put it to use.


Install Git on macOS
- [Instructor] If you are using a Mac, Git might already be installed, but there's a good chance it's outdated. You can check by opening terminal and running git --version. Here, we can see that the version is indeed outdated. So, if we need to install or update Git, we can go to the website. We go to git-scm.com, and we hit Download. Here, we can click on macOS, and this gives us different installation options. The easiest way to use is homebrew. If you don't have homebrew yet, you can install it first. Then, you go back to your terminal and we run brew install git. Once it is done, open a new terminal window and check the version again. We can now see Git has been updated. Other options you can find on the website include using MacPorts or Xcode, which already comes with Git built-in. There's also a binary installer with a graphical setup, but as of now, it is outdated, so I would not recommend it. Unless that changes, sticking with homebrew or MacPorts is your best bet to getting the latest version.