Configure Git
- [Instructor] When we have Git on our local computer, we have some configuration that we can do and some that needs to be done. You don't need to do this if you're using a code space, but you should still be aware of the mandatory configuration for when you move to a local device. There are a few different Git config files. The two that are most likely to be of use for you are the global config and the local config. The global configuration applies to all the repositories for your user profile. The file is called .gitconfig, and you can find it in your home directory or in your user folder. The other configuration I want to mention is the local configuration. This applies to a specific repository and is stored inside a file called config. You can find it in a folder in your repository called .git. Note that on Windows, this might be a hidden folder. The settings in this file will override any settings in the global configuration. You are able to edit these settings using a text editor, a code editor, or directly in the terminal. Some common configurations include setting your default editor, defining the default branch name, or creating aliases. Now let's see what those mandatory settings are that we have to create before we can start. So I am starting from the terminal, and what we need to do is add our name and our email to the global configuration. You have to make sure that you are using an email address that you will also use with your Git provider. First, the name. We use git config --global user.name, and then your first name, your last name, a nickname, whatever you like. Then to add the email address, again, we use git config --global user.email, and then your email address. As you see, you won't get any feedback after running these commands, so to see if they were actually added to the configuration run git config --list. And here we can see they have been added to our configuration. If you want to view your configuration at a later time, you can always use git config --list again. This will always display the current settings. With these two settings in place, Git is now ready to use, so let's get started.