Var
- [Instructor] In this chapter, we'll take a step back and look at some fundamentals of JavaScript including variables, data types, and various operators. For this purpose, have created the most basic of exercise files, a blank HTML document calling in a single JavaScript file. This gives us a good playground to experiment in the console. We'll start with variables. The classic variable container in JavaScript is simply called var, and it's defined with the var statement. You assign a value to a var by giving it first a name then using the assignment symbol, the equal symbol and then adding a value to it. In the console, I can create a new var by saying var, and then give it a name, container, and then use the equal symbol to assign a value to it. So I'll assign it to value of five. Now I can call in the container at any time and when I do, I get the value. So, five. So I can say container and the browser will automatically tell me, if you do this, you get the value number five. And if I actually execute, I get five back. Now, var is mutable. Meaning you can change its value at any time and assign it a new value. So I can now grab container and set the value equal to red. And this is a string of texts. Hit return. And when I now call container back, I get the string red in it's place. Five is gone and will never reappear unless I reassign container to the number five. Var was the default for all variables for decades. So you'll come across it in tutorials and examples and in code all the time. It is also the default if we forget to say that we are creating a new variable. So look at this. If I just create a random variable and assign a name to it and assign a value to it without using the var keyword, it'll still appear as a variable but the browser will not be happy. So I'll say something equals seven and hit return. Now we have a variable called something, and if I hit return, I get a seven. Now this variable is a var, we just never declared it. And if you run this through your code editor, your code editor will tell you, hey, hey, hey, you forgot to use the var statement. So I don't really know what you're trying to do. One more thing, you can define multiple different variables at the same time using the var statement. So if you know that you're going to have several different variables, you can use a comma separated list to declare them all at the same time. Var, so if I make var x equals four, y equals five and z equals blue and hit return. I now have three variables; x, which is four. y which is five and z which is blue. Finally, I can create variables that don't have any content yet. So I can say var empty and just hit return. Now we have undefined variables. That means the variable exists but it contains nothing or it is undefined. It has nothing assigned to it. So when I call back empty now, you'll see it says undefined. That means it's there, but to use it, I need to put something inside it.