Const
- [Instructor] The const statement defines a block scoped constant. From a scope perspective it works the same as the let statement, but a const is a constant meaning once it's defined, you cannot assign a new value to it. Let's look at our example again to see how this works here. Here we have our example in the status it was when we left it in the previous movie. Jumping over into the code, you can see we're now using lets instead of are so that we ensure that there is block scope and everything is working properly. But we still have this redefinition of a value down here. We redefined the color value to sky blue. Now let's see what happens if I change the lets at the top here to a const. Save. Check in the browser. And once again we have that problem where the right-hand box turns green. Only this time, the title is also black. So what is going on? Looking at the console we get a new Uncaught TypeError assignment to constant variable at script.js line 11. What's happening is we're trying to reassign a value inside a constant. And because it's a constant, we can't do that. So the script stops rendering, not down here where it was stopping previously but all the way up at line 11. So that means the heading color function never runs. So by reassigning a value to a constant we are breaking our script. Now you'll notice inside VS code I'm not getting any errors here. It's not telling me I'm doing anything wrong but in the browser the browser is telling me something is wrong. At first look, this might seem annoying, especially because you get no warning in the code editor when you accidentally tried to reassign a constant but it's actually a very helpful tool when programming. Assuming you follow my rule of thumb and use a let for any changeable or mutable variable using a const for any unchangeable variable makes a lot of sense. Using a const we know there is no risk of the assigned value suddenly changing or being changed by accident. And we know if we try to assign a new value to a constant the browser will flag the error and stop rendering immediately. The end result is cleaner code and less errors. One note, when I say this when I say we can't reassign values to a const that's exactly what I mean. We can't put new stuff in the const box. That doesn't mean we can't change the status or properties or other features of what the constant holds. As we've seen earlier, you can still change the properties of an object inside a const. You can also change the entries in an array inside a const, you just can't reassign the whole constant to replace the object with another object or the array with another array or an object with an array. So the key takeaway here is for any data that should be protected from accidentally being overwritten, like an object, or an array or a function, use a const.