Clone the remote repository
- [Instructor] Now that we have set up a remote repository, let's link it to our local computer so that we can start working with it. If you are using a codespace, you don't have to follow along with this video, but I do recommend watching it, as you will need to know how to do this from your local device. So let's just visualize. What we are doing here is grabbing the complete remote repository and saving a copy on our local device. Let's first go to the browser and to our remote repository. The first thing we need to do to start a clone is click Code right here. Make sure you are in the Local tab. And here we have some options to clone our repository. As you can see, we can use HTTPS or SSH. Both methods have their pros and cons. But for this video, we will use HTTPS as it's a bit simpler to set up. You see a URL here, and we have a button with which we can copy it. So we'll click that, and now we'll move on to our local device. You can use any terminal you prefer. I'm using PowerShell, but you could use CMD on Windows or the terminal on Mac or Linux. The experience should be the same. I've already set up a folder where I keep all my Git repositories. In this case, I named it Code. Now, let's clone the repository. I'll type git clone, and then paste the URL that we just copied, and I'll press Enter and the cloning will begin. This might be a part where the computer asks you to sign into GitHub because it needs a connection with your local device. If you do, make use of signing up with the browser, as that is one of the easiest ways to do it. After you sign in, the process will complete and you will get a complete clone here. So a new folder has been created for my repository. If I want to, I can open it in Visual Studio Code. I do that by typing code and then the name of the repository. So let me start with git and then Tab for Tab completion. I'll press Enter and Visual Studio Code will launch. Since I created this repository myself, I'll select trust the authors. And there we go. We now have a repository on our local device with all the files that we got from GitHub.