Initialize a repository locally and sync it
- [Instructor] Now let's take a little sidestep. When you start out, you probably already have code at your local folder, and you might want to push this into a new remote repository. And good thing is that it's absolutely no problem. Let's see how we can do that. You cannot follow along with this video if you use GitHub Codespaces, but I do recommend that you watch the video so that you know how to handle this scenario in your local environment. As you can see here, I'm creating a repository, but I'm not going to initialize it. So I'm not going to add a README, I'm not going to add a gitignore, and no license. Create a repository. There's nothing in here. The web interface is already offering me some options to help me set this up, but let's walk through this from the local environment. First thing I'll do is copy the URL here, because I'm going to need this later. Now let's open up Visual Studio Code. As you see here, I have a local folder with a few files in it, just like a regular folder. It's not a Git repository yet, so we need to turn it into one. To do that, we can use git init. We now have an empty Git repository. Let's go ahead and add the files that we already created. I'll use git add . to add everything to the staging area. And then I'll commit it with git commit m initial commit, which is the standard message that we use for the first commit in a new repository. All right, so now we have our local repository, but how do we connect it to the remote repository that we just created? To do that, we use git remote add origin, and then the URL that we copied from a web interface. Now our local and remote repositories are linked, but the code has not been pushed to the remote repository yet. At this point, I want to show you how Git can help you out if you are new to this process. To do so, I'll type in git push, press Enter, and I get an error. But the error explains me what went wrong. The issue is that in my local repository, I am working on the main branch, but the remote repository doesn't have any branches yet, since it's empty. So Git tells me what command I need to run to set up that branch on the remote repository. So what I'll do is just copy that suggested command and paste it in the command line. And with that, the main branch has been created in the remote repository. So if I do git push again, my code has now been pushed to the remote repository. So now if I go back to the web interface and I'll refresh, I can see that the code from our local environment is now in the remote repository. So we were already able to start from the remote repository, but now we are also able to use our local device as the source.