Access elements using older methods
- [Instructor] In tutorials and code examples, and even live code you will often find two other methods used to access elements, getelementsbyClassName and getelementbyId. Notes that get elements by class name has the plural of elements whereas the by id one has the singular of element. These two methods used to be the only tools we had for accessing elements using classes and ids and they still work, but queryselector and queryselectorall were introduced to simplify this process and remedy some of the shortcomings of these older methods. That said they still work fine they're just falling out of favor because the queryselector method work better and easier. Lets look at how these older methods work, getelementsbyClassName returns an array-like object of all the nodes or child elements matching the query. The query is string of space separated class names. Looking at the exercise file for this moving you will see I have added the packprop class to some of the list items in our list. We can now use getelementsbyClassName to find only those elements. To do that open the console, target the document object cause that gives us everything in the document and then we say getelementsbyClassName and then we pass in the class name we are looking for packprops, I mean packprop there we go. Here now we get an htmlcollection of elements, now an htmlcollection is similar to the node list we got with queryselectorall and it works pretty much the same way it just that this is an older way of doing things, the browser is returning an older type of object back to us we can still use the foreach loop to loop through these and we can still do all the other things, so it's effectively the same thing just in a different method. Okay, so this query gave us all the items, now let's say I want to get only a specific item that has both this class and another class. Lets look back and say maybe we want the one that also has backpack color so I will say packprop backpack color, I will go back into my console hit the up arrow to just get my old query and then I will paste and this two class names instead, what we get in return now is the same an htmlcollection only now there is only one item and that is the item that has that specific combination of classes. So using getelementsbyClassName we can get a single element but we get a return as an array and then we have to iterate through that array to get to the single element. Say document getelementsbyId and pass in the name of that id hit return and we get the document object this time of the id. Now that you see how these works you will also notice in older code, developers often used ids specifically to be able to target objects like this because like I said we used to only have these two methods and the class method gives us an htmlcollection that we then have to work with further to get to the object that means in some older code you will find html documents are full of ids simply so that we can target them using this particular method but now that we have the queryselector and queryselectorall methods we no longer need to comply with the restrictions of these two methods and we can do whatever we want using C S S query instead which is why we use queryselector and why these two older methods are relegated to the past.