Inline style
- [Instructor] If an element has inline styles meaning there are CSS declarations in the element itself that inline CSS is stored in the style property of the elements, and we can access it as a regular property in the exercise files for this movie I've added an inline style to the site title. You see it here. We have a div class site title style, color black. I can now lift out that style information using the style property on that element. Now, what I get in return here is a CSS style declaration which is a list of all the available possible style properties that could be applied. And then a specification of which ones are actually applied. So here you can see color property applied. And if I scroll way down on this list here let's see all the way down here. You see color is at the black. So this is not the most useful list possible but it does indicate what we can use this for. Because what you're seeing here is the CSS style declaration object contains every possible property. That means I can call up any of these properties specifically because it is just a property of an object and then set that property directly. So right now, when I called for a style dot color using dot notation I get the result black. If I, again called style dot color and set it to something else like Rebecca Purple watch what happens. The color now changes to purple because we're just setting the property. And what also happened is inside a style declaration here in the element, the color declaration changed this year, targeting the individual style properties is the recommended way of handling inline styles because it allows us to modify just that property and nothing else. I say this because you can technically assign a new value to the style property directly if I go and request just a style property again and we take another look at this CSS style declaration you'll notice way down here there is. Let's see here there's a property called CSS text, and this is the actual text that sits inside the style property. So if I now to find a different style, in addition you'll see it gets upended here. So if we collapse this, let's see here and then clean this up and then say, we want to set style background color equal pink and hit return. Now we have two style declarations both color and background color. And if I then go and call in just style again and scroll way down here we have CSS text and it literally spells out what is in the text of the style property up here. So technically if I have one too, I can also just set this property CSS text and put in all the style declarations in one go. But like I said, the recommended approach here is to set each individual CSS property individually, because then you have one way control. One more note here. If you look closely at the CSS properties listed in this CSS style declaration property, you'll notice that there are no hyphens. I remember way back when we talked about property names and I said, you can't have hyphens. It applies here. So instead of hyphens, all the CSS properties have been camel cased. So background color is not background dash color instead it's background and then a capitalized C color. And you can see here the list of all the available properties and what they are. So if you want to set a CSS property and you wonder what is the correct property name, all you have to do is go through the elements in question and just call the style property. You get the full CSS style declaration list, and then you can scroll down and find the property name you're looking for and use that to target that particular property.