Challenge intro: Create elements
- [Instructor] In this challenge, you'll create new DOM elements and populate them with content, specifically a navigation menu with a list of links. In the challenge code, an existing DOM has been set up for you, but it's happening behind the scenes, so you can't get direct access to it in the browser and take a look at it. That DOM contains a header element with the class siteheader and that's where you'll append the new menu. You also have a JavaScript template literal containing list items that will be used in the navigation menu. So you can just append this list of items into an unordered list as you go along. Your task is to add the list items to an unordered list, then add the unordered list to a nav container. Then give the nav container the class .main-navigation and finally append the new nav container to the existing element with the class .siteheader. The final HTML of your nav element should follow the structure you see here. In the challenge environment, you can see the nav content template literal, but you can't see the DOM. So if you need a reference for what the DOM looks like, you can go back and look at the slide I showed just before this. When you write your solution, do it down here in the createNavMenu function. And remember, here you're creating new elements in the DOM and then appending them to each other. So this function doesn't return anything. It manipulates the DOM itself.

Solution: Create elements
(lively music) - [Instructor] There are several ways of solving this challenge. I'll walk you through the one I think is most logical and it's also the most verbose one, which works well for our purposes 'cause then you can see exactly what's happening. I'll go down to create nav menu here and start off by creating a new nav element. So I'll create the outermost container that we'll be working with. I'll put it inside a new const called mainNav and I'll set it equal to document.createElement and specify the nav element. So now we have a nav element inside the dom. It's not attached anywhere yet, but we can now reference it and use it. Next, I want to append a class to the nav element. So I'll say mainNav.classlist.add and then main-navigation. Now the nav has a class. Next, I need to create an unordered list to place inside this new nav element. So I'll say const and give it a name, navList. Set it equal to document. Create element again, this time UL. Now we have an unordered list. And then inside this UL, I want to place the list items I have up here in a template literal, so I'll say navList.innerHTML = navContent. Now, in normal circumstances, this is not how I would do it. I would actually go and create a new list item for each of whatever links I wanted to create and then populate it using JavaScript. But that's more of the same process again and again and again and it would be very verbose and tricky to look at in this challenge. So therefore we're not doing it. Good best practice is never inject HTML like this. We're only doing it now because it serves our purposes in this test environment. All right, that caveat aside, let's continue. Now I need to grab our nav list and place it inside the main nav. And I'll do that by saying mainNav. So that's the nav element. Then append and then navList. This places the nav list inside the main nav. And inside the nav list we now have the list items. So that means we have the complete HTML element. And the last thing we need to do is append this new nav element to the existing element in the dom so it actually gets displayed on the front end. For that, I need to first find the site header. So I'll say document, query selector, find.siteheader. So, that's the header in question. And then we'll append mainNav. Now if I did everything correctly, this test should pass. So let's click test my code and see what happens. Cannot read properties of null, reading append. Hmm, let's see what is wrong here? On line 43, 24. Document, querySelector. Site header. Oh, site hader, I see. I have dyslexia. Things like that don't appear to me, so, but now it's correctly spelled. Let's try this again. And look at that. All the tests passed, which means I did this correctly. And down here at the bottom you can see the output of the full header element with both the existing elements that are in there already and our new nav with the UL inside and all the list items inside of it.