Request/response pairs
- [Instructor] All this theory is well and good; but to really get REST APIs, you have to see one in action. So in this chapter, I want to dig into the standard request response pairs to show you how different types of requests are made, what the responses look like and, most importantly, what they do. For these examples, I'll use my locally-hosted WordPress site and the authorization header from the previous chapter. Remember, requests and responses will vary based on the configuration of the REST API you work with; but the overall structure and behavior will always be roughly the same. So while what you see here will not match what you'll see interacting with other REST APIs, the principles taught are the same. The first step in working with a REST API is discovery. For this, we'll use an options request. In the WordPress REST API, the posts resource is the resource collection for all the available posts on the site; so let's start there. I'll pass a request for options and then the posts resource. This gives us a detailed breakdown of all the methods and arguments available for this resource, but doesn't give us any of the actual data. Based on this response, I see I can send GET and POST requests to this resource. Digging a little deeper, we see that each of these methods have a long list of arguments we can use to make more detailed resource requests. For example, down under the GET method we have per page; and the description says: maximum number of items to be returned in result set. This argument can be used to augment how many posts are returned. So, by default, we get maximum 10 posts; but we can change this number to something else. I know from testing that the maximum number here is 100; but if you just want one post or you want 15 posts or whatever, you pass per page as part of the argument. We'll do that a little later on. For now, all that matters is options gives us, literally, all the options we have for this particular resource.