GET
- [Instructor] To get the data from a resource, we send a get request and that means if we want the data from the posts resource, or the last 10 posts in this blog, we'll send a get request to the resource. Just like with options, we don't need to send an authorization header here, but we might as well since we have it, we get all our options. When I send this request, the rest API returns to me a list of the 10 most recent posts on the site. Each of these posts is structured as a nested JSON object. So here you can see the first one is post with "id":4, this is the publishing date, and the modified date, then we have the URL slug, we have the current status of the post, the type of post, the link to the post, this is the regular human readable link to the post, then we have the title, the content and so on. And as we scroll down, you see that this post is complete. That's because in the case of Word Press we get the full data for each of the posts even in the posts resource. So if there's a lot of long posts on this Word Press site, this data set will be quite extensive. Now let's say I don't want 10 posts, I just want one post. Well, we address that in the previous movie. You remember I said, the posts resource has a long list of arguments for both get and posts? Well, we can use those arguments and the way we do that is by stringing them on as a URL quarry. So after the posts resource, I'll say question mark and then per page, equal, and then one so I only get one post. Then I can resend my request. And scroll down and now you'll see we only have this first post here, "id": 4. If I scroll down to the end of the post, you'll notice after the post content, there are no more items. If I want two, I just go and change that value to two, resend the request, and now you'll see we're currently at the end of post four and now we've added some extra information. So here's "id":1 for the second post on the list. But that's not all, thanks to the hyper-media ask the engine of application state constrained, each of these post objects carries with it its own resource link as well as the public link. So once we have a post object on a list like this we can use that post object to find a link directly to the post itself. At the top of each of the post objects, we'll find id and a little further down you have the link property. Now this is the human readable link, but if I scroll to the bottom of this post object after all the content, down here there is a links property and under the links property we have self and href and this is the resource link to this particular resource. And in the very next line we also have a link to the collection. So here we see restful.dev/wp-json/wp/v2/posts and then posts/4, that means if we want just this single post, all we have to do is copy out that link, paste it into our get request, run the request, and now we are looking at the singleton resource for the post with id of four.