PUT/PATCH
- [Narrator] Now that I've created a new resource through the REST API, I want to make a change to it. I want to change the title, cause I don't think the title fits exactly. Depending on how the REST API is set up, we could either use POST or PUT or PATCH to make this change because in some REST APIs, POST, PUT, or PATCH are exactly the same and in some REST APIs they are quite different. Now, the only way I can really figure out which tool to use is by going and asking the REST API itself. Over here on the left hand side we already have a GET request for the singleton resource 15. And to find out what I can do with this resource, I'll now again send an OPTIONS request. This will give me a full breakdown. And here you see we can send a GET, POST, PUT, PATCH, and DELETE requests. So I'll make a search and say PUT and when I go to the second entry you'll see that here in the Wordpress REST API the POST, PUT, and PATCH methods are actually treated as the same. So they all have the same exact functionality. That means inside the scope of Wordpress REST API, to change an existing resource we can actually use either POST, PUT, or PATCH, it makes no difference. In other REST APIs, it will be different. This is just a choice of the designers of the Wordpress REST API. Alright, so let's send a PUT request to the REST API. Here's how that would work. First, I'll just close the status window so we can see the code. Then, I'll change my request to a PUT request. The PUT request will look very much like the POST requests, so here again we have the Authorization header and the Content-Type. And then instead of adding all the information, I'm now only going to add the information I actually want to change. So I'll un-comment this section here and then say I only want to change the title so I'll take the rest of these entries out. And the new title should be The New REST API Post Title! Again, to show you I'm not cheating, this is what we see inside Wordpress right now. A post created via the REST API! Then I send this request. Over here on the right hand side it tells me 200 OK and if I scroll down, you'll see the title here is now set to The New REST API Post Title! And if I go to my browser and reload, the post is now called The New REST API Post Title! Now, this is the same post and you can see it clearly up here because the slug has not been changed. The slug is still a-post-created-via-the-rest-api. But the PUT request worked as expected and as a result I have successfully changed the title.