Use Git locally
- We have seen what the concept of Git is. Now let's get an understanding of how it works on a technical level. In this video, we're going to look at what happens when we use Git locally. First we have a local folder in our file explorer, finder, or whatever file management program we are using. Git brings us two extra containers, the staging area and a local repository. Let's say we create a file, doesn't matter what type, and we save it to our local folder just like we would do without using Git. We are working on this file and come to that point where we want to create a snapshot before we continue working. To do this, we add the files that we want to include in the snapshot to the staging area. We can do this by using Git add, followed by the file name. So for example, Git add Code1. Our other option is to use Git add dot to add all changes that we have made to the staging area. So you could see the staging area as an opportunity to store only specific files in the snapshot and leave out other files even if we have changed them. The files that are changed but not in a staging area are called modified. Once we're satisfied with the state of the files in the staging area, we can now create the snapshot by adding the files to the local repository. We use the command Git commit with a commit message. We will see the complete explanation of this command at a later video. By using Git commit, the current changes in the files are stored in the database in the local repository. Now we can continue to work in our local folder, but we have a snapshot to go back to if we're not happy with those changes. So by using Git locally, we can create snapshots of our process and revert to previous versions if needed without making a mess of our file explorer with multiple versions of the same file. That is how Git helps us manage our projects on a local level, making version control simple and efficient.