Distributed version control
- [Instructor] Git is what we call a distributed version control system. In this video, we're going to break down what that actually means. To understand it better, let's first look at centralized version control. This is the kind of system you know from tools like OneDrive or Dropbox. In a centralized system, all your files are stored on a server and you sync your local files with them, but you are always working with the latest version. So, for example, if I change a file on my computer, it'll also be changed on the server, and that change will be pushed to everyone who is working with that file. So the old version is stored only on the server, not on my computer or anyone else's. That means if something happens to the server, we will be able to work with the latest file, but we will not have access to the file's history. Now, in a distributed versions control system, things work a little different. We still have a central server, the Git provider, but instead of just syncing the latest version, every client has their own complete copy of the repository, including all snapshots and the entire history of the files. So when I pull files from a Git provider, I'm not getting the latest version, I am getting the full history. This means that even if something happens to the central server, we still have complete copies of everything that have ever happened to those files. Note that the GIT provider in this context is a lot like the other computers that have stored a repository. The difference is that it's centrally localized. So we can grab our files there, but we all have the same files and the same version stored.