Creating a project with Next.js
- [Instructor] If we take a look at 05_01b, you might notice that it's now an empty folder. This is by design because we're going to be creating a new project inside of this folder using Next.js. Next.js is one of the most common React frameworks out there, and it's one that's recommended by the official React team for creating your projects. So I want to show you this framework because within it is baked in a lot of those best practices in the world of React. And using Next.js will allow us to take advantage of it without having to do too much setup. More on that in a little bit, but let's first create our project. We're going to go to 05_01b. So let's make sure that we're in the right directory there and we're going to initialize a Next.js project. So let's go ahead and run npx create-next-app@latest. Now this is going to walk me through a whole wizard of putting this together. So what is your project name? We'll call it next-react-project. You then can decide whether to use TypeScript. I'm going to choose No for now. ESLint? I'll say No for now. Let's go ahead and incorporate Tailwind. We're also going to incorporate the source directory. We want to yes, use the App Router. Wnd then we'll say No, we don't want to customize that default. So when this is all being installed, it's going to generate a starter project for me. So from here, what I can do is migrate to that project, next-react-project. So once I've done all of that installation, I'm going to run npm run dev. This is going to stand up a Next.js project at localhost:3000 So I can go back to the browser, go to localhost:3000, and this is going to pull this up. So now we have Next.js in the browser, and this is sort of our starter for this project. Now, within this project there is a source folder. Inside of that source folder is a folder called app. Now, all of our files, by default in this Next.js project are going to live inside of the app router. And this is going to allow us to create routes for different endpoints within our application. If we look at the layout.js file, this is sort of the metadata of the project as well as the HTML. So just like we injected our React code into the body of our V app, we're doing the same thing here. This time it's being added under this children property. And the main kind of page, for lack of a better term, is here underneath app page. So inside of this file, the page.js file, is the component that we're going to render whenever we go to the slash route. In other words, whenever we go to the homepage at localhost:3000. So let me go back here and we're going to remove some of this code here. We're going to remove all of the div from this project so that all we have is a main project here. Let's go ahead and add More React to Come. I'm going to also get rid of the image 'cause it looks like that is not being used anymore. And then if I go back here, More React to Come. So we've created our Next.js application. In the next video we're going to take a look at how we can set up routes and start to work with this production-ready React app.