Using the App Router
- [Instructor] As I mentioned in the previous video, we're using Next.js, and specifically, we're using the App Router. What this means is that within my project, my Next.js project, we have a folder called app that's going to create all of the different routes that are part of our application. So, this is a file-based routing structure that we can use so that anytime I create a folder, like mountain, this is going to create a new route for me. Within that mountain folder, I can create a new file called page.js, and the page.js file is going to display whatever content we want to see when I hit this route. So, for example, I can create a new function called Page, and then here we can return a main component. Inside the main component, we'll add an h1, Lift Status Info. So, within the next React project, we're going to run npm run dev, go to localhost:3000, and we see our homepage here, but we're here really to look for mountain, right? And this is going to show our Lift Status Info. Very cool. So, this is our first example of creating a new route. A couple things to know about this. Sometimes your app folder will be inside of the source directory, sometimes it won't. That's just an option that you can choose as you're configuring your project. The app folder though, will wrap around this mountain folder and any other routes that we want to create, so, within this page, that's where we'll make that happen. Another thing that we can do, if we go to the layout file, you can add any sort of component that you'd like to right here in the layout if you want it to appear on multiple pages. So, let me show you what I mean here. We'll say return a header, inside of that header, we want a div. Inside of that, we want a nav element. So, within this div, this is where we're going to use our first component from Next.js, and this component is called Link. Nav is going to help us navigate between different components and different routes. So, let's go ahead and add an href to this. So, we'll say href/ and then let's actually make this a full link so that it has some text, so we'll open and close the link component, and then we'll say Snowtooth Mountain. Now, from here, what I want to do is, we'll create another div. This other div, we'll say mountain, and we'll call this Mountain Info. So, now once I've created the header, I can place it inside of the RootLayout. So, this'll prevent me from having to import this in absolutely every page, and remember where it goes every time. Instead, we'll just use the header on every single page. So, with that being added, I also need to remember to import this Link. So, Link is going to come from next/link. Okay, back over to LocalHost:3000. Now, if we go to just the home route, we have Snowtooth Mountain, Mountain Info. If I click on Mountain Info, that will take me to this, and then if I click back to Snow Tooth Mountain, it'll take me to the homepage. So, the link component works harmoniously with the App Router. Anytime we add a link there, it's going to keep track of where we are and help me move from page to page with ease. In a later video, we'll make some adjustments to the style so that looks a little bit better, but for now, we should understand. Use the link whenever you need to navigate between pages, and then place any components that you want to render on every single page inside of the RootLayout.