Building a server component
- [Narrator] Within our React project here, within our next JS React project, to be specific, we have our app directory that's going to contain all of the files that we're going to render in the app. So what's kind of hiding in plain sight here? So if I run this app on localhost:3000, I can see that these routes are being created for mountain, for our home route, and then we have links in between them. Anytime I create a component using Next.js, by default, this is a server component. So think of a server component as a component that allows you to write some UI that can be rendered and optionally cached on the server. So what we can see here, if we open up our developer tools, so we'll go to the Elements tab and then we'll start to investigate some of these tags that are in the head. You're going to see a lot of these chunks, these pieces of the app that are being imported also at the end of the body because they want to make this as efficient as possible. We want to render something and then load our JavaScript in the background. All of this JavaScript is being rendered as this string. So this is considering performance every step of the way. And we're also getting some benefits like security and caching and all sorts of things are happening behind the scenes that we as developers don't have to worry about too much, but we can understand that it's going to make things much faster. So we can automatically implement server rendering without configuring anything. All we need to do is create these folders and create these components that live inside of them. Something to note about creating these pages or these components is that each one of the pages, each one of the files has to have a default export. So this is why we're export default function Page, that is how we're creating this component so that it can be properly consumed. So basically anything that's on the page is this interactive preview of HTML, and then anything that's interactive can be hydrated with that JavaScript. So let's go ahead and make a couple adjustments here. So we're going to create another directory called hotels. Inside of the hotels directory we'll create a page.js file. The page.js file, again, export default function Page, and then we want something to be displayed here. So let's go ahead and return a main element and then we'll return a div that says Hotel Details. Nice, so this is, as a preview, going to be a container for some data that we're going to load in a future video, but we're rendering a server component here by default with our Hotel Details. I don't love how that menu looks and I promised that we would change it. So let's go ahead and do that now. We're going to within our header component that's inside of the layout, make some adjustments here. Configured in our app router project, we have selected Tailwind as the CSS tool for this app, and Tailwind works with different classes. So let's go ahead and add a few things. We're going to say bg-slate-500. P-Y stands for padding on the Y-axis for about 16 pixels of padding. Let's add a little bit more markup here to our div. We'll say class="container mx-auto px-4". Same amount of padding, but on the X-axis. Then we'll add class="flex items-center justify-between". So this is going to help us incorporate Tailwind's Flexbox to order these elements about the page. Here we'll say className="flex items-center" again. Let's see how we're looking. All right, cool, so now we have these elements here. That's looking pretty good. Mountain Info and Snowtooth Mountain, all of those are appearing. So in a subsequent video we'll work on the look and feel of the lift status info, but we'll have to load some data first. But for now, we see these. You can always add additional links if you want to. Let's link to our hotel, for example. As soon as I add that link component, it will be added here and then I can click on it and that'll take me to that page. All right, so we have React server components supported. All of that is working in the background to make these apps, make these components as efficient as possible so that our app can be super fast.