Challenge: Creating a route
(upbeat music) - [Instructor] I have a little challenge here for you. Within the next React project, there is a README file with some instructions for a challenge. I'd like you to create a new route at /contact. Then I'd like you to render a page component at /contact. Then you can run the app and make sure that that is rendering appropriately if you go to that route. And then for extra credit, which, of course, counts towards your final React grade, add a link to the contact route from the header. Okay, that's it. In the next video, I will go over the solution. If you get stuck at any part in that, the solution will tell you how to fix it.


Solution: Creating a route
(upbeat rhythmic music) - [Instructor] Alright, let's go over our solution. So we wanted to create a new route, we wanted to render a page component, and we wanted to make sure that the link is to the contact route from the header. So anytime I want to create a route, I go to the app folder, I create a new folder called "Contact." Within it, we have a default export typically in a file called "page." (keys clicking) And we export a component. In React, we want to always make sure that our component name is capitalized. That is a React thing, not a Next.js thing necessarily. Let's go ahead and return a main element, and we'll say, "Contact us!" Great. So this should be exported from that route. If I go to the correct folder, I make sure all of my node modules are installed, and I run "npm run dev." This should run. We go back to localhost:3000, it looks like it's on the hotels route, that's okay. But if I go to contact, we should see "Contact Us!" Nice. What happens if I go to a route that doesn't exist? Well, I could see like, "contact-us," that's not a route I've created, that's not a folder. It's just going to 404 out. We can always customize that page of course, if we'd like to. I also added the extra credit, right? So all these errors are because I added that contact-us 404 route. So let's go ahead and go back to the header, which lives in the layout.js file. What I can do here is just copy and paste one of these divs, add the appropriate href to contact. We can change the title to "Contact Us." And then when I go back here, we see Mountain Info, Hotels, Contact Us, I click on it. And there we go, how cool is that? So that is how I add that link, that is how I create the page. And we can always add additional routes as our content demands. So awesome job, everybody. We've done it, we have created even more server components inside of our app.