Layouts with the float property
- Historically, the float property was used to create page layouts. However, we now have grid and Flexbox, which provide better solutions. Though the use of floats in layouts have decreased, you may still need to support them. For example, you may end up working on a project that uses an old code base, often referred to as legacy code. Plus, floats are still relevant today and can be used for simple layouts, so it's important to understand how they work. Early websites mostly recreated print designs using the float property to create magazine style layouts with floated images and text flowing around those images. Developers soon realized they could float other elements too, leading to float-based page layouts. Most HTML documents are block level and are displayed at a full width, stacking on top of each other in the normal document flow. The float property can be used to change the position of elements by floating them to the left or right side of their container. However, this removes the floated elements from the normal flow, resulting in a change to the positioning of these surrounding elements. Let's take a look at how this works in a CodePen example. I've already added some border and background styles just to make it easier to see the boundaries of each element. Let's start by adding float left to the image. This will place the image to the left of its container. Floated elements are taken out of the normal flow, so the next element, in this case, the paragraph, will move up to fill the area. The space here between the paragraphs is the default margin style for p tags. Speaking of margin, let's add some to the image to create some space around it. The text is now flowing around the image, but the background color on the paragraph shows that it's actually filling up the whole space behind the image. But the content contained within will make room for the floated element while filling up the remaining space around it. Let's say we have a short paragraph where the height of the content is less than that of the floated image. Let's comment out the long paragraph to see what happens. Now, both of the short paragraphs will flow around the image since they both fit in the available space. But what if we wanted only the first paragraph to wrap around the image? We can achieve that by clearing the float using the clear property. First, determine where you want the layout to return to the normal flow. If you only want the first paragraph to wrap around the image, then the clear property should be applied to the second paragraph. This will return the layout to the normal flow from this point on. I've added a clear class in the CSS panel with three possible values to try out to apply this style. Add a class to the second paragraph tag with a value of clear. Now let's look at the first option in the CSS panel. If we add clear left, this will be used to clear left floats. So this one works because the image was floated to the left. The second paragraph is no longer flowing around the image and has returned to the normal flow. The second option, right, will clear right floats. So in this example, it won't work since the image is floated left. The third option is the one I like to use, both, because it clears both left and right floats. So if you change your float value, you won't need to change your clear value. An important thing to note is that this method only works when the clear property is applied to a sibling element that follows the floated element. But there are other techniques for different scenarios that we'll continue to explore.