Clearing floats
- [Narrator] In the previous float exercise we applied the clear property to a specific element to return the page back to its normal flow. But what if there is no element to apply the clear to? In this example, the blue box is floated to the left, taking it out of the normal flow. As a result, the parent element shown with the black border will not recognize the height of the floated element, which will cause it to overflow outside of the parent element. If all the child elements are floated, then the parent element's height will collapse to zero. Elements that are not in the same container as the float will also be affected. If there is enough space, the elements that come after the float will stack underneath in the available space. Their child elements will also flow around the floated elements. When there's no element in the same container as the float to which a clear style can be applied to, a self clear must be applied to the parent element instead. There are three ways to do this. Option one, use the overflow property with a value of auto or hidden. Although this property has been used in the past for clearing floats, its main purpose is to control the display of content that's larger than its container. When size dimensions are added to a container element, the content may sometimes extend beyond those dimensions, causing the content to flow outside of its container. Using the hidden value with the overflow property will clip the overflow of content. While this may be okay for decorative content such as images, it's not recommended for text because the clipped content is hidden. The auto value adds a scroll bar but only when there's an overflow of content. To clear floats, any overflow value can be used. But this technique can result in clipped content or unintended scroll bars when working with overflowing content. There's also a second option using the clearfix hack, which is a snippet of CSS that has been created and updated by the developer community. The snippet looks like this. Similar to the before pseudo element used in our projects for the header image, after places a generated element after the parent element. Then the clear property is applied to this generated element, resetting the following elements to a normal flow. Although this method is called the clearfix hack, the clearfix in this CSS snippet is just a class name. If you want to use a different name, you can. Like any other class name, it just needs to be consistent in both CSS and HTML. These types of fixes were often created to support older browsers, mostly old versions of Internet Explorer. But with Microsoft's end of support for IE and a push to use their modern browser edge, supporting older browsers is now less of an issue, which leads us to the third and newest method, involving using the display property with a value of flow root. This creates a new block formatting context or BFC for short. This just basically means that all the elements will be contained within the parent element, including the floated ones, so you don't have to worry about any floated elements poking out of the container. With the clearfix hack being more than 15 years old and the adoption of modern browsers, flow root is the best solution since it was designed to be used this way rather than as a workaround.