Project: Float images and text
(upbeat music) - [Instructor] In this project update, we'll make our first layout change and we'll be using the float property for its intended purpose, which is to float text around images. This will apply to the thumbnails in the projects section. We'll also add more visual separation between the sections by adding space and a border under the H2 titles. Let's start in the editor in the Resume HTML file. For each project section, let's add a class. I'll name it "project item." We'll need to add this to each one so instead of typing it again, I'll just copy and paste it and add it to the other project sections. Save the file and switch over to the CSS file. Now under the project sections, we'll add a selector for the image tags, but within the project items sections. So let's use another descendant selector, project item, Space, img. The image is currently displayed at the default size of the image file, but I want it to be smaller for this layout, so let's add a width of 300 pixels. We can also apply a float left to these images as well so the text will flow around it. Save the file and refresh the browser to see the update. Since my content is shorter than the thumbnail image, the following project items have moved up to try to fit into the extra space. Also, the text is flowing right up to the edge of the image so we should add some margin to that as well. Let's go back to the CSS file. Using the same selector, we can add some margin to the right of the image. Since I'm only adding it to one side, I'll just use the longhand margin right property and I'll set it to a value of 20 pixels. Let's also clear the float in the parent element with the display property and we'll use the flow root value. We'll need to create a new declaration block so we can apply it to the project item, element, display: flow-root. This will keep all the child elements floated or not floated within their containers. Let's save the file and check these updates. Now the floated elements are contained within their parent element and each project item section is stacked on top of each other. If your text is longer than your image it will flow underneath the image. It's fine to use float to create an effect like this, but if you want the image on the left and all the text on the right, you'll need to create a two column layout. And in the past, floats were used to create this type of layout, but now we use Flexbox or grid, which is a better option, and we'll discuss that later in the course. The project items are now aligned, but they're stacked right on top of each other so let's add some space in between each item. Back in the editor, in the CSS file, under the project section, we're going to use the existing project item selector and add the margin property, but this time we'll use two values. I'm going to set it to 30 pixels, Space, zero to add 30 pixels to the top and bottom and zero margin space to the left and right. And just a reminder, when you use zero as a value, you don't need to add units. All right, let's save this file and check the updates. Now we can see the space between the project items. Next, let's update the styles for the main resume sections, these H2 titles. We're going to add some more visual separation by putting a border underneath these headings. Back in the Resume HTML file, we'll need to create another class. This time we'll add it to each of the main sections of the resume. Let's start from the top with the profile section, add a class to the opening tag. I'm just going to name them "resume section." Then I'll copy this class and add it to the remaining sections. I'll just collapse each block again so I don't have to scroll through all the code. So here's my project section. I'll add the class there. Next, I'll add it to the work experience section and the education section. Now back in the CSS file, we're going to add a new declaration block for this new class. I'll add this style under the resume page section. First style we'll add is some margin bottom. I'll go with a value of 50 pixels just to add a little more space between the main resume sections. For the border, the style will be added to the bottom of each H2 heading contained within resume section. So we can use a descendant selector for this, .resume-section, Space, H2. Add your curly brackets and then we'll add a border bottom style. For the value, I'll go with a border width of two pixels, Space, and a dashed style. And I'm going to use the light gray color from my palette. I'm just going to scroll up to the top to grab the hex code and add it to my border style. Okay, let's check this update. We can now see better visual separation between the main sections of the resume as well as each project item. You can adjust this to your liking, but I would recommend waiting until after the typography chapter where we'll be changing the fonts. The fonts you choose can influence how much spacing you want to add or remove.