The position property
- [Presenter] The position property is a technique used to position elements by changing the flow of the document. It has five values, static, relative, absolute, fixed, and sticky. The default position for elements is static, which means they are not positioned. For the other values, the box offset properties, top, right, bottom, and left must also be used to specify the placement of the positioned elements. Let's use a code pen example to see how these position values work. Starting with relative positioning, scroll down to the relative class and uncomment the position relative style. We won't see any changes yet because relative is the only positioned element that stays in the normal layout flow. So none of the surrounding elements will be affected either but all positioned elements can be moved using the offset properties. A top value of 20 pixels will offset the element 20 pixels from the top of its current position. A bottom value will push it from the bottom of its current position, but if both top and bottom are declared, the bottom value will be ignored. This is true for all the position values. The right and left values will specify the right and left offset, but if both a right and left value are declared, the right value will be ignored. This is also true when used with all the position values. Now let's look at position absolute. Add the style in and watch what happens to the fixed box. It looks like it disappeared, but if I comment out the background color of the absolute box, we'll see the green fixed box behind it. The fixed box was stacked below the absolute box but when the absolute box was removed from the normal flow, the fixed box moved up to fill the space. Let's add the background color back in and add the right and bottom offset properties. For the relative example, I used pixels but any length unit can be used. So for the absolute example, I've used percentage values. By default, absolute positioning is relative to the body element. Currently, the box is positioned 25% from the right and 5% from the bottom of the initial viewable area. I say initial because if you scroll down, the box doesn't stay 5% from the bottom of the page. It was 5% from the bottom of the page when the page was initially loaded. When using position absolute, it's common to contain the element within a specific area. This can be done by adding a position value to a parent or ancestor element. So let's add position to the wrapper, which is displayed with the black border. Any position value can be used but relative will contain the absolute box within this container without affecting the natural page flow. Now it's 25% from the right and 5% from the bottom of the wrapper. Now, if I add position relative to the parent element, which is the box with the red border, the absolute box will now be positioned to this container. Elements with absolute positioning are relative to the nearest positioned container element. If none exists, then it will be relative to the body. Now let's scroll down to the fixed declaration block and add the fixed position style. It is also removed from the normal flow which is why the gray sticky box has moved up and behind it. Let's add in the offset properties then try scrolling the page. Fixed positioning is always positioned relative to the view viewport and stays in the same spot even on page scroll. It's not affected by any positioned parent or ancestor elements. Lastly, there is sticky positioning. A new position value now supported by modern browsers. Similar to relative positioning, using sticky value will not result in any changes until at least one offset property is added. So let's add in the top value. With sticky positioning, the element stays in its initial spot until you scroll the page. Then when the offset value has been met, in this case, it's 10 pixels from the top, it becomes fixed. When you scroll past, its containing element. It will go back to its initial position. It may be tempting to use the position property for creating page layouts since you can arrange the element in specific areas on the page. But positioning shouldn't be used this way since it takes the element out of the normal flow with the exception of relative. Stick to using position for styling smaller page components such as a fixed navigation bar rather than large page layout blocks.