Position and z-index
- [Instructor] So far, we've talked about how elements can be placed along the X and Y axis, but there's actually a third axis, the Z axis. When an HTML element is added within the same container, the elements are stacked in layers on the Z axis. This is called the stacking context. An element with a higher stack level is displayed in front of the element with a lower stack level. The stacking context depends on the order, the type of the element, and how they're positioned. The stacking order applies to elements that share a common containing element. In this example, box one and box two are in their own stacking context within the section block. The same goes for box three and box four, but the section blocks also have a common containing element, the body tag, which then forms another stacking context. Elements stack on top of each other by default, so most of the time, it's hard to see how they're stacked on the Z index unless they overlap each other. So let's take a look at a CodePen example. As I mentioned before, CodePen is meant for testing smaller code snippets. To reduce redundancy, the HTML and body tags are already included within the tool on the backend, so we can't see the tags in the HTML panel, but we can still apply CSS to them. The root element is shown with a gray background color and is followed by the body element, shown with a white background color. These are always at the bottom of the stack because all other elements are nested inside of them. For the rest of the demo, I'll remove the display none style one by one so we can see the default stacking order. After HTML and body, next in the stack are block elements in the order that they appear in the HTML. So block one is stacked on top of body, then block two, since it comes after block one in the HTML. By default, these elements will stack on top of each other on the Y axis. So I've added margin styles to make them overlap so we can see how the elements stack on the Z axis. The next layer in the stacking context are floated elements that are not positioned, then inline elements, and finally, on top of the stack are elements that are positioned. The default stacking order can be changed using the Z index property, but the element must have a position applied to it for it to work. Let's try moving block one from its current placement in the stack. First, we'll need to add the position property. I'll use a value of relative so the Z index property can be applied, but the element stays in the normal flow. Just by adding position relative, the stacking level for block one has already changed, but the orange position box is still displayed on top of block one because it comes after it in the HTML. Now, I'll add the Z index property to block one. Any number value can be used to move it up to the top of the stack. I'll give it a value of one. If you use Z index to change the stacking order of multiple elements, a higher value means a higher stacking level. This means we can control the order of the stack by using a larger or smaller number. Let's make another one of these elements higher in the stack by using a higher Z index value. I'll add position relative to the inline element. Then I'll give it a Z index value of something that's higher. Let's go with two. Now this inline element is at the top of the stack. Changing the stacking order with Z index is most useful for elements that always need to be displayed on top of other elements, such as dropdown menus, tooltips, or a pop-up box.