Project: Fixed positioning
(upbeat music) - [Instructor] In this project update, we'll use the position property to add a Download PDF button seen here in the final version of the project. This button can be used to link to a simplified copy of the resume without images or background colors, making it easy for potential employers to print. The button will be fixed to a specific spot on the page using position, so it will always be available for download as the user scrolls through the page. The first step is to add the link to the resume page. Let's switch over to the editor. Even though a fixed position to style can move an element anywhere on the page, I'm going to add the link to the top of the page in the resume.html file just after the opening body tag. Without positioning, this link will still display first, giving the user the option to download the PDF right away. Remember, we use HTML to structure the content and CSS to style it. To continue using the auto complete feature, type a and press tab, to add the link tag and the href attribute. I've already added the PDF to my project files. It's in the same folder as the HTML files so the href value will just be the file name. If you don't already have a PDF version ready, you can just use the number sign as a placeholder and update it later. For the button text, add Download PDF between the a tags. I also want to apply the button style to the link in addition to positioning it so we can reuse the btn class to apply the existing button styles. Let's add another class so we can add specific styles to this download link. I'll just name it download link. And make sure there's a space between the two classes. Save this file and switch over to the CSS file. Under the resume section, let's add a new declaration block for the download link class. Then we'll add the position property and set it to fixed so it can always stay in the same spot. You can position it wherever you'd like but I'm keeping mine in the top left corner with just a little space from the edges. So I'll set both the top and left values to five pixels. Let's save the file and see how this looks in the browser. Here it is on the top left of the page. The link will open the PDF into the browser window and it can be downloaded from here. The download button is also now fixed. It still needs some more adjustments to make it look more like the button in the final version. This will be completed in the typography chapter. When building a website, we start with general styles and then get more specific as we build out the pages and fine tune the components. Although there are similar page structures and popular design trends, no two websites are exactly the same so there isn't a specific order for adding styles. CSS involves a lot of back and forth and rewriting as you build out the components and this is all part of the process.