Is NoSQL right for you?
- [Instructor] Let's take a look to see if NoSQL is right for you and your project. So recall CAP theorem from chapter one. It states out of consistency, availability, and partition tolerance, we can only have two out of the three in any given scenario. We looked at how relational databases focused heavily on consistency and NoSQL databases focus more on availability and partition tolerance. So knowing we can only pick two out of the three, we're essentially choosing between what are called acid, or relational databases, and base, or NoSQL databases. Consistency and isolation shown here on the left from acid databases are forgone in base databases in order to make room for performance and overall basic availability. As a rule of thumb, you'll choose between different relational and NoSQL solutions based on some fundamental qualities that your specific project requires. Overall, acid, or relational databases, are very defined and strict, whereas base systems, or NoSQL, are more fluid with graceful fallbacks. So, in acid or relational you're looking for strong consistency, precise data. You're going to have a schema. Your data is going to be well, well defined before you even start the project, and availability is not as important as consistency here. In base or NoSQL solutions, you're going to be looking more optimistically. Weak consistency is okay. It's okay to have some data that is stale, approximate data's okay. The schema doesn't need to exist upfront. You're going to just define the data as you go along. You're going to have some agile development happening. And availability is much more important here than in relational databases. Generally, relational databases are called for when we have very well-structured data. So extremely high data integrity is needed in these applications, like transactional applications, banking, finance, whenever we need to ensure that the data integrity and its consistency are in place. Scalability and availability are of less concern than the consistency of data here. Often, you'll have a team with SQL expertise, and it makes it easier for them to just deal with relational databases. NoSQL is the best choice when you're working on an agile project with evolving data. So you're going to think startups and consumer facing apps here. Eventually, consistent data is fine. And availability and/or scalability is more important than consistency. We're not talking ATM transactions with these.