Database considerations
- [Instructor] How appropriate is a NoSQL versus relational database for your project in terms of time, money, and tech? First, let's look at time. Take into consideration if your team needs time to ramp up on either solution. Additionally, consider if they're familiar and well trained in agile principles or prefer waterfall. If you have strong agile developers, you might gain time savings upfront and potentially get your product to market sooner by using NoSQL. Are there a lot of complex queries? If so, using the more mature SQL language of relational databases could be a time savings in a big way. NoSQL could be much more cumbersome in this case, especially since its products each have their own unique languages which developers might need to not only learn, but also potentially be forced to write custom code for because a pre-packaged solution might not be available in these immature languages. Economic considerations such as the cost of training, the cost of scaling the server, and the cost of the complexity of your whole system, can play a part in the affordability of any given solution. When NoSQL first came out, it was lauded for its inexpensive deployment. As many a team has discovered, it's not so cut and dry, and very much depends on the number of queries you need, where relational is good in that aspect, if you're adding NoSQL into a system that already exists with relational. In that case, it's going to become more expensive because of the additional complexity and obviously the cost of hiring and training for either solution. Most of this course is focused on tech considerations of NoSQL. And in my opinion, this should be weighted more heavily than the other considerations when making your final call. Essentially, if you need transactional integrity, you will need a relational database. There are other miscellaneous factors at play here like the complexity of your project and the tools you'll need. If talent's available and the cost and time needed for maintenance and the like. The most important aspect here is that you need to take into consideration all of the above factors prior to making a final determination. There might be additional things at play here too. Like maybe your venture capitalists loves NoSQL or relational, very well and need to start a project as soon as possible. Overall, the choice isn't cut and dry, but hopefully, you now know additional items to take into consideration.