Choosing between NoSQL databases
- [Instructor] Let's assume that a NoSQL solution is right for you. Now, which database should you choose? In chapter two, we learned the different types of NoSQL databases, key-value, document, wide-column and graph and this is where we'll begin. First, you'll want to determine if you're looking for the fast and simple key-value solution, a general-purpose document solution, a solution for vast amounts of data with pre-defined queries or if you're looking for the relationship-specific graph database. Now that you know which NoSQL data store type could be appropriate, let's add on CAP theorem. And the two out of the three most important factors you face. So you're looking for consistency and partition tolerance. In that case, MongoDB, HBASE or Redis might be appropriate. Redis is key-value and CP. Mongo is document and CP. And HBASE is wide-column and CP. Similarly, if you're looking for availability in partition tolerance, you might consider CouchDB, Cassandra, or DynamoDB depending on the NoSQL data store type that is appropriate. Popularity of a NoSQL solution generally corresponds to the amount of talent that knows the specific technology. So let's use the previous table and add on popularity rankings. You'll notice here that MongoDB is number one in this list for document CP types of databases. It could be a good choice for you. The right NoSQL database for your needs can be determined by storage type qualities you're looking for. This, along with the two most important CAP factors, be it CP, CA or AP and the popularity of the database will give you a really strong start. Finally, you'll want to look at your developer's preference, along with costs associated for any particular database solution you're looking at.