Where NoSQL thrives
- [Instructor] Even though NoSQL is an umbrella term for non-relational databases, and the different NoSQL databases are specialized to a certain extent, there are general areas where NoSQL thrives in comparison to relational. And in general, these areas include when you need scalability, flexibility, and speed in your application. And you might say well that's every application, but there are always trade-offs. What exactly will we be trading? Well remember CAP theorem in chapter one? CAP stands for consistency, availability, and partition tolerance. And CAP theorem states we can only have two out of three of those items. Traditional relational databases don't really offer partition tolerance. Only NoSQL databases offer this along with subspecialties generally related to availability or consistency depending on the NoSQL database chosen. The promise of partition tolerance means our whole system won't go down even if part of it does. And some scenarios lend themselves very well to this. For example, NoSQL's great for caching information. So users experience websites as running faster. Another place where NoSQL thrives is storing user session information. Again, it's information that's needed for a particular time period, but doesn't need to be stored perfectly everywhere at the same time. It's not a big consistency thing, right? If a user's session information isn't consistent it's not the end of the world. It's more important to us that our application is running for all users even if some of the data isn't perfect at any given moment. Real time inventory systems, fraud systems are two additional areas where NoSQL works well. Think about it. Is it more important that the data is perfect in these systems, or that the system is up and running at scale? I'd argue that consistency can be traded for partition tolerance here. I want my fraud detection system running. Even if some nodes might have imperfect data from time to time.