Challenge: Relational or NoSQL
(gentle music) - [Instructor] So let's make use of what we've learned and see how we're doing. I'm going to give you a few scenarios here. Given what we've discussed so far, which solution do you think would be best for any given situation, a NoSQL or relational database one? First up, we have an entrepreneurial drive-share app. In this case, we're entrepreneurs with a team of agile developers and we're creating a new web application that allows time sharing of luxury vehicles. Drivers rent from dealers, they review each other and the like. The app will have an international audience and should be able to scale quickly. What do you think, NoSQL or relational? Next step, we have an enterprise financial app. We work for a large enterprise bank and we're creating an internal auditing app of our financial data and live banking systems. What do you think relational or NoSQL here? Finally, in this case, we work for consulting firm that is using vast amounts of unstructured data to look at consumer spending over the course of a year. Which solution do you think would be right in this case? We'll look at the solution in the next video.


Solution: Relational or NoSQL
(upbeat music) - [Instructor] Curious to see how you did in determining the best solution for given scenario? Let's take a look. First up, we have our Entrepreneurial Drive-Share app and NoSQL, would be a great fit here. It's a consumer focused app. So focus on flexibility and scalability with eventual consistency is very appropriate. We want the user experience to be smooth and quick, and we want to help our developers who work in agile sprints to be able to work outside of strict schemas. It's an ideal NoSQL scenario. Next up, we have our Enterprise Financial App. And when you think of a financial app I hope you're thinking about transactions. And if high data consistency is needed. In addition, we know we're working internally with an enterprise bank. So that app won't be shared with the world. Scalability is not necessarily of importance here. Given all of these conditions a relational database with its focus on consistency over availability and scalability is what we need. Finally, we have our unstructured big data app. And although the fact that the app is financial might have you initially considering a relational database, this isn't so. In this case, it's likely way too much data for a relational database to manage. Since we're looking at vast amounts of unstructured historical data, and our data isn't transactional NoSQL would be a suitable solution.