CAP theorem
- [Instructor] All right, let's geek out a little bit with CAP Theorem. CAP stands for Consistency, Availability, and Partition tolerance. And it states, we can only have two out of three of those items. Consistency here means that, data throughout the system is the same. It's when accuracy is of highest importance, so you're going to think banking, high-stakes transactions, maybe online deposits to your checking account. Availability relates to users being able to write and read the data regardless of failures in the network. And finally, partition tolerance means that the system is up and running, working as expected even if some of the network is down. Because we can only choose two out of these three very important factors, CAP Theorem helps us form intelligent decisions when choosing the right database for our needs. Relational databases, overall don't offer partition tolerance, nor do they offer high availability because they keep records that beta other users during updates. They do offer reliable, consistent data though. NoSQL databases offer partition tolerance, along with subspecialties related to availability or consistency in general, depending on the specific NoSQL database chosen. So relational databases offer extreme consistency but since data is found on only one machine generally, the partition tolerance suffers again. Also, because such systems lack records during updates, the availability isn't very high. Let's look at NoSQL systems that focus on partition tolerance and availability. How these systems work, is that all users can write to machine one in this case, but they read from machine two, three, four, et cetera. The consistent most accurate data here is on machine one. But the data, only makes it to the other machines in the systems after replication. Therefore, although there could be imperfect consistency in data, eventually as the machines that replicate data, the idea is that they will be consistent. So, they will have eventual consistency. Examples of such systems include CouchDB, Cassandra, and DynamoDB. Now, let's look at NoSQL systems that focus on partition tolerance and consistency, or CP systems. In this case, users read and write to machine one, and then replication occurs. The consistent, most accurate data here is on machine one. This data only makes it to the other machines in the system, after replication. Examples of such systems include MongoDB, Hbase, and Redis, along with relational databases with fail over.