Explore a NoSQL database
- [Instructor] So to give you a better feel for what NoSQL is like, I'm going to show you a query on a sample NoSQL database. Some NoSQL databases are more friendly when it comes to querying than others. In this example, I'm using the popular document storage NoSQL database, MongoDB. It's pretty simple to get started with Mongo. If you'd like to follow along and try this yourself, you'll want to check out the MongoDB setup document provided to you within the exercise files. But in general, you're going to go to mongodb.com in a browser and click Start a Free Trial or Try Free, something like that from the Home screen, and MongoDB does a great job of walking you through the setup of your account and your first sample database. And once you are set up and logged in, you'll be able to explore your databases. So, I'm going to head over to cloud.mongodb.com. So, I've already joined, like I said, I've set up my sample databases. I've logged in. I've gone here and here. You're going to see my clusters and I have a cluster called NoSQL Essentials. Yours might differ. I'm going to click on the Collections button to start interacting with MongoDB's online data explorer. And here, you'll notice that the sample Airbnb database only has one collection called Listings and Reviews. Go ahead and click that. Here you can see under Find, many, many documents. These are the documents in a document oriented NoSQL database. They have fields, you can use the data explorer to edit these documents, copy them, clone them, delete them, up here you can even query and that's what we're going to do in the next video.