Query a NoSQL database
- [Instructor] Okay, Let's learn how to query in MongoDB. So we're going to use this explorer, online interface we have. And we want to query some different property types, let's say. How did I figure out we wanted to search for property types? Well, I looked at all the fields down here and saw that there was a field called Property Type. I'm assuming there's apartment, and house and others, but I can verify my assumptions simply by looking through the documents here to see different ones. Or, maybe I can query it. Huh. Let's check it out. So to filter, we go up to the filter box. We start with an open curly brace and we always end with a closing curly brace. What goes in between includes, our fields in the field values we're looking for. So let's go ahead and type in property type. And I'm going to throw in a colon. And, notice that under property type here, it has apartment in quotes. Developers might be familiar with this as a string. Others just know that if you see quotes in the values here you want to put quotes in the query. That's all. So we've put property type, colon and apartment in quotes. Go ahead, and click Find. And you will get in return, a bunch of documents that only, have a property type of apartment. Let's try house. Let's see if there are house property types. I'm just going to pop this in here like that. And yes, there are. Very good. Now, let's say we want to query on more than one field. All we have to do is separate our fields and values by commas. In this case, let's also search for bedrooms. To figure out what field bedrooms is called, we simply again, look through the documents. There it is. It's not B-D-R-M-S, it's bedroom spelled out logically. And the value here seems to be a number, or an integer in this case if you're a developer. Notice it does not have quotes. That means we do not have to put any quotes in, the query here. So I'm not going to. In this case, I'm going to search for property type of house and bedrooms with three bedrooms, hit Find, and we'll have our results. In general, that's how you query. It's that simple.