Challenge: NoSQL query
(bright rhythmic music) - [Instructor] And now it's time for your challenge. What I want you to do is go ahead and filter for all houses with two bedrooms and one bath, along with a minimum number of nights stay of two. We'll go over that solution together in the next video.

Solution: NoSQL query
(upbeat music) - [Instructor] All right, let's see how we did. Again we're looking for property types of houses with two bedrooms, one bath and a minimum night stay of two. First thing you are going to do is look through the documents and browse the fields and see what field names represent what we're looking for. We will start with property type. So go ahead in your filter box start with an open curly brace, that's how we're going to start all our queries. And then you are going to type in the property type field, property underscored type. Colon separates our field from our values. And in this case our value needs to be in quotes. So we will follow suit, property type house. Next up, we're going to move on to bedrooms now to separate our field value pairs from each other, we use commas. Boom. Now let's go ahead and look for bedrooms, it's represented by the word bedrooms. And in this case, this is a integer or a number, a simple number. So go ahead and type bedrooms and we are looking for two. So we type bedrooms colon two. Separate our fields value pairs with comma, next up we're looking for one bath. Baths are represented by the word bathrooms shown here in this field. And in this case, it's a floating point number. There's no need to put a quotes around it. And in this case, you don't have to put 1.0, you could simply put one, but it is a floating point because you can have one and a half baths for example or two baths, two and a half baths. We're just going to put one here, you could put 1.0 that would also work. And finally, minimum nights stay of two. And here's the field that represents what we're looking for, minimum underscore nights. And note that two in this case is in quotes. So we must follow suit and put quotes in our value here as well. Finish it up with a closed curly brace and click find. And there you go, there are 20 results. You can browse through them to verify that they are correct. From this point why don't you go ahead and try different queries on your own. I also tried to mess things up for example, you could remove the quotation marks around the value two to see what happens. And if you do that, you'll see no query results. Go ahead and try different things out and then join me for our next chapter on different types of NoSQL databases.