Sidebar: URL vs. URI
- Short sidebar. Moving through this course, you'll hear me use the acronyms URL and URI quite a lot and you may be wondering what the difference is. So let me give you a brief explanation. In the official definition, a URI or Universal Resource Identifier, is described as a "compact sequence of characters "that identifies an abstract or physical resource" that "provides a simple and extensible means "for identifying a resource." The URI is the most generic method for naming and locating a web resource. The official examples of URIs show you that any sequence of characters that identifies a resource is considered a URI. The URL, or Universal Resource Locator, is a subset of the URI. The URL not only identifies a resource, but also explains how to access that resource by providing an explicit method like HTTP or FTP. In other words, all URLs are URIs, but not all URIs are URLs. There's also another subset of URIs we rarely talk about, the URN, or Universal Resource Name. The URN refers to both URIs under the URN scheme and to any other URI with the properties of a name. The classic explanation of the difference between a URN and a URL is to say the URN is a unique name identifier, like the name of a person. There are many people named Morten, but only one person name Morten Rand-Hendriksen. Refer to me by my full name and anyone who knows me knows who you're talking about, even if I'm not there and they don't know where I am at the moment. The URL provides my actual physical location. So right now my URL is Earth, USA, California, Carpinteria, etc. On the web, a URN can be either an explicit URN, like oasis:names:spcification:docbook, etc. or it can be a resource name like linkedin.com/learning/instructors/morten-rand-hendrikson. Finally, a URN can also be a URL, but doesn't have to be. So in conclusion, a URL might also be a URN and both are URIs. When we talk about REST APIs, we typically use the generic term URI to refer to how we access resources because within our code, we can use either URLs or URNs or a combination and URIs cover all options.