Who or what interacts with REST APIs?
- When explaining how REST APIs work, you'll often hear people refer to clients who consume the REST API. The question is, who are these clients? And what exactly are they consuming? As you know by now, a client in this scenario is not the human interacting with the website or app, but rather, that website or app itself. We are merely the operators of these REST clients, and the clients consume the REST API by creating and sending requests, and receiving and parsing responses. The beauty of the REST API is that at its core, it does not care who the client is as long as the client follows the rules. The REST API's job is to receive requests, process data, and send responses. Where those requests come from, and where the responses go, is relatively irrelevant. That means, if you have an open REST API, say for a regular WordPress site, anyone can access that REST API. And once they're in, they can figure out how to access its methods and resources thanks to the REST constraints. Once they have that information, they can then send valid requests to get access to the REST API resources. And that's the whole point of having a REST API to begin with. You provide an interface for your data to be quite literally consumed by whatever client comes knocking. That's not to say all REST APIs are completely open, or that anyone can do anything they want with the data in the REST API. Most REST APIs have strict limits on who can access what, which capabilities they are granted, and how many requests they can make in a set time period. Social media sites are a great example of this. Twitter, for example, has several open REST APIs for a client. So an app to gain access to this API, the operator of that client, so the human being, must first authenticate themselves with a username and password. This ensures Twitter knows who is using the REST API and can monitor their behavior. Once access is granted, strict rate limits are imposed to ensure the client doesn't overuse the service. If you've used a third party client for a social media tool you may have seen a warning like API limit reached, or similar. Now you know what's happening on the backend. The key takeaway here is you, the human, do not interact with the REST API directly. Communication with the REST API is handled by the client, which can be anything, really. A website, an app, even an internet of things device. The REST API does not care. It just receives requests, processes data, and sends responses, and all that data is consumed by the REST client.