Tools to see REST API in action
- [Instructor] All right, enough talk. Let's take a look at a REST-API in action. To do this, we first need a REST-API to interact with and here at the onset we'll use a public Sandbox REST-API. There are several of these REST-APIs available for free on the web. In this example, I'll be using the one you see here called REQ/RES. You can find it at reqres.in. Let's start by making a basic GET request to see the root of this REST-API. Most of these public REST-APIs have extensive documentation on how to use them and REQ/RES is no exception. If you scroll down on the front page of the service, you'll find a list of a bunch of different requests you can send and it also models the request responses, so you can see exactly what's going on. Here we have a GET request for list users. This is what the actual request looks like, it gets a 200 response, meaning everything works properly, and here's the data that's returned. You can switch to single user and you can see the data changes. You can go single user not found and here we get a different type of response message. Their message is empty and so on. What we want to do is send a similar request, but not inside the site. We want to send it like a regular REST client. Now, here's the thing. Reqres.in is a RESTful API that uses the HTTP protocol for requests, so that means we can use any client that uses the HTTP protocol to send a request, and wouldn't you know it, our web browser is such a client. So, we should be able to open a new tab and then type in a request and get a response right here in the browser. Let's try to do that. Https://reqres.in/api/users. If you wonder where I got that command, it's the same command you see here at the top. I just took away this question mark page equals two. All right, run that in the browser and see what happens. If everything works correctly, you should get a response like what you see here and what you see here is that this browser is not a great REST client. At least not for us humans, that's because it doesn't really know what to do with the response other than to display the actual data within the response. What we get here is more or less useless information. We don't know anything about what was in the header of the response and the data is formatted as if it was regular text, so it's not parsed out properly and it's really hard to read. To make the response from a REST-API readable, we need a REST client assigned for this purpose. There's several such clients available, including Postman and Insomnia, and if you have a favorite code editor, there's a good chance there's a REST client extension or package for that editor as well. If you're using Visual Studio Code like me, you can install a REST client fittingly named REST Client straight from the marketplace. This is the REST client I'll be using throughout the rest of this course. You can choose to use this REST client or any other REST client of your choice. We are just using the client to create a human accessible interface between ourselves and the REST-API. Any REST client will do the same thing, it just does it in a slightly different way with a slightly different user interfaces. If you want Visual Studio Code for this, here's what you do. First, boot up Visual Studio Code, then click on the extensions button. From here, make a search for rest client and the first response should be the correct extension. Once you find it, click install to install it into Visual Studio Code. Once installed, we can use this new REST client immediately. To do that, we'll first have to create a new project, so I'll go to the files explorer, open a folder, and here I've created a folder on my desktop called REST-APIs. Then, we select this folder as our project folder, create a new file, call this file rest.http. You can call it whatever you want, but that's what I'm going to call it. Inside this file, we'll type out our request, so what we want in this case is to GET https://reqres.in/api/users. The REST client automatically recognizes this as a REST request and provides a link above it that we can click on. To run the request, you either click on this link or hold down ctrl + alt + r on Windows or cmd + opt + r on MAC OS and when you do so, a new panel opens on the right-hand side with a response from the REST-API. What you see here right away is this response looks quite different from what we got in the browser. That's because this display contains the full REST response header with all the meta information about the response and it also formats the data and the header in a human readable way. So, it's easy to see exactly what's going on in the response. If I collapse this side panel here and pull this one out a bit, you can see here we have a fully structured header with all the information about our response, then we have fully structured data with nesting. We can see that this is a JSON response, it has a bunch of properties and values, and we can gain access to all of them. In the next two chapters, we'll break down these REST requests and responses in detail to see exactly how all this works and how to work with it in real life.