Building a form
- [Instructor] Currently we have this Contact Us page that's really just an H1 that's being displayed when I go to the /contact route. So we want to create a contact form. Typically, the best way to get started creating that form is to create the containers where the data will go, and then we'll wire everything up so that it works appropriately. So within this main element, we're going to add a form. Within that, we're going to add a div that has a label. The label will be right next to an input. We're going to create another div that has a label again, and then it will also have a text area. There are a few attributes that we want to add. So we're going to say HTML for email. Then we're going to, in the input, create an ID of email, a type of email, a name email, and then we'll say that it's required. From here, we can add a label for message. So the form is just going to be an email address and some sort of a contact message. This one is going to have another HTML for attribute, HTML for message. Our text area will say ID message required name. And then there's a property called rows that we can set to say basically, how high do we want this text area to be. In this case, we want it to be four rows. So outside of the div, but inside of the form, let's add a button. What would a form be without a button? Let's add some text to that button. So we'll say send message. Then inside of the button opening tag, we're going to say type submit. And then we'll give that a save. So over here we're starting to see this thing take shape. It looks like I forgot the label for the email. So let's add that here on line seven, and then we should see all of that there. So that's starting to take somewhat of a shape here. Let's add a few tailwind classes to make this look a little bit nicer. What I'll do inside of the main is let's say class name, Max-w-md. And then we'll add some padding on all sides. We'll give it a background of white, a shadow of md, rounded md, so that centers it, that's starting to come together. Let's add a style for our H1. Remember, we always use class name instead of class and react unless we forget and then we have to go back and do it. But still, we should be doing that from the start. We'll say font bold, we'll center the text, and then we'll add MB-6, which will set the margin on the bottom. Okay, starting to take shape here. We probably want to add a few styles to the form elements as well. So let's, inside of the form add a class name space Y-4. Okay. And then we will also on the label. So here we want to set this as block text, small font, medium text, gray 700. And we'll copy this class for the other label as well. Okay. Then let's go ahead and add to our input. So the input is here. Line 20 will say class name. Let's just say focus ring two. So that'll add a little bit of style to that. We'll also say focus ring blue 500. And then we'll say focus border blue 500. And let's add a style for just what it looks like regularly, even when it's not clicked on. We'll say border gray 300. Okay, and then we'll add that border attribute so we see it in both places. Now I can just copy this entire class name to our other input for the sake of making it easy on ourselves. So that's that. And then for good measure, let's add a little bit of style to our button, shall we? Let's add, we'll say class name and then we'll set that equal to text white, background blue, 600, rounded md. Okay, that looks pretty cool. And let's add some padding to it just so that there's a little bit of space around that button. There we go. Nice. So that's looking good. This is another benefit of working with Next.js. We can configure it to work with Tailwind so that we can just jump in and we can start to add those classes to our elements. Know that working with Tailwind is totally optional. You don't have to do it, but just know that this is available to you if you do choose to configure your project with it.