Straight from the source
- [Instructor] The best place to find up-to-date authoritative information on any technology is usually directly from the creators or standards or definition setting bodies for that technology. For the web platform, that's the W3C. For JavaScript, it's the Ecma International Technical Committee 39, better known as TC39. For React JS, it's the react core contributors operating under Facebook open source found at the main react JS website. For WordPress, it's the WordPress core contributors found at wordpress.org. For Gatsby, it's the Gatsby core contributors, found at gatsby.com. The pattern here is pretty clear. The people who build the technology are the ultimate sources of truth for that technology. Now in almost every case, the people or organizations or companies who create technology have a vested interest in other people using that technology and using it correctly. To meet this goal, they typically offer extensive documentation, practical guides and examples, support and user forums, and other outreach programs. So knowing this, the first place to look for accurate and up-to-date information on how to do something is usually the website for the core project. However, don't be surprised if you don't find what you're looking for when you go to the core website. I know that sounds weird, but there are several reasons why the core website might not provide you with information you're looking for. Here are a couple of them. First off, standards-setting bodies, like the W3C and TC39, and application development communities like React and Gatsby and WordPress, focus mainly on documenting the core functionalities and applications of their tools. I.e. the tools themselves and how they work. Look up the image element in the W3C documentation, and you'll find an extensive in-depth academic analysis of what this element is, how it works, and how it's meant to operate on the web. This is all very interesting, but it's probably not what you need. Look up how to build an advanced accessible multi-tiered dropdown menu with React and you'll discover the examples provided for the React website are focused on how all the various core technologies you'll need to make your menu work individually, but there are very few examples of how it all fits together. In other words, they have extensive coverage of the fundamentals, but not much when it comes to complex, real-world use. Secondly, for many applications, documentation is often secondary to development. By that, I mean, the application evolves well ahead of its documentation. So you'll often find documentation that is either out of date, incomplete, or non-existent. This is especially true for applications undergoing rapid development, like WordPress and React. It's quite common to find one feature extensively documented like the button feature in the WordPress block editor, while there's another feature that has almost no meaningful documentation at all, in the same documentation page. It's also quite common to find in-depth breakdowns of features, like React State, with expansive code examples only discover there are newer features that may meet your requirements without using any of those technologies and with a lot less code, such as State Hooks in React. This brings us to the third reason. What appears to be internally inconsistent or contradictory information, is often the result of a platform or application providing documentation for many different versions of the same tool to ensure backwards compatibility. When software evolves rapidly, as is the case with the web, the people who use the software are rarely able to keep up with all the current updates. That means they often end up using older versions or older techniques to solve problems, and they need documentation to match with their use case. As a result, the platform must provide documentation for these older versions or older approaches and that results in contradictory or inconsistent information. In summary, the best place to find up-to-date and accurate information about anything is to go directly to the source. However, when you do so, keep a couple of things in mind. The source may not provide information for your use case. If what you're looking for is new, there might not be extensive documentation available. And finally, there's a good chance there's old information mixed in with the new, so check publication dates, version numbers, and other indicators to make sure you're getting the most up-to-date information and the information that fits with your particular user scenario.