Platform resources
- [Instructor] The web is interesting in that it doesn't belong to anyone. There's no company or organization that provides the web to us. Instead, it exists as a unified implementation of a set of standards defined by various groups. The web is provided to you and me over the internet by governments, and companies, and organizations, and individuals all over the world that are all working together for a common purpose, information sharing over the internet, which is pretty spectacular, if you think about it. The key is when you visit the web, you're interacting with an implementation of a set of standard specifications. The implementers of these standards are the browser vendors and infrastructure providers like internet service providers. These companies and organizations have a vested interest, both in people using the web and in the web working as efficiently as possible for everyone. That is, after all, how they make their money. To achieve this goal, implementers work together to provide extensive platform resources for you and me. These resources are typically independent entities maintained by many different companies and contributors. The best example of a platform resource is the MDN Web Docs. This website is the most up-to-date documentation for HTML, CSS, JavaScript, and other web platform features. And it's targeted towards the people who build websites. Anytime you're looking for information about core web technology, whether it be an HTML element, a CSS property, a JavaScript method, or an HTTP header, or anything else that happens in the browser, MDN Web Docs is the closest thing you'll get to the absolute truth about web platform implementation at least, and why is that? It's because the documentation is written by the implementers themselves.