Status reference sites
- [Instructor] Alongside platform resources, there's a specialized type of resource I'll call status reference sites. These are sites collecting data about the web to provide statistics about the current status of the platform as a whole. Two sites exemplify this type of service; CanIUse.com and HTTPArchive.org. CanIUse.com might be the most aptly named service on the web. It gives you up-to-date information about worldwide browser support for most platform features including HTML, CSS, JavaScript and beyond. For each feature, there's a breakdown of what browser has implemented the feature, statistics on what percentage of the global web using public have access to that feature through browsers, and lots of other relevant information. From a CanIUse search, you can quickly make an informed decision whether to use a feature as is or whether you need to provide adequate fallback or maybe not use the feature at all. As an example, according to CanIUse, it's pretty safe to use CSS Grid, green across the board here at the bottom, but Subgrid might still be up for debate. Where CanIUse monitors browser features, HTTPArchive monitors website features, as in what actually goes into the websites we build that people visit the most. HTTPArchive provides detailed reports on usage trends on the web down to programming language, technology, page size, how many images are loaded, how big the JavaScript is and so on. It also publishes a yearly Web Almanac with detailed analysis of a wide range of statistics and trends on the use of the web platform. CanIUse, HTTPArchive and other resources like them provide important background information on the work of building websites and apps. You can use this data from these resources to inform your decisions when building new websites and applications. Considering employing a specific technology and not sure if it's properly supported? Check CanIUse. Scoping out a performance budget or investigating whether the page load of your site is on par with the industry? Check out HTTPArchive. Wondering whether this is the right time to switch to Jamstack, and if so, what framework to use? Look at the Web Almanac.