Community resources
- [Instructor] Standards bodies define how things should work. The platform resources document how implementation works, and community resources is where you'll normally find in-depth information on real-world use of technologies. And because of how rapidly the web platform evolves, community resources often cover new use cases and new approaches and new applications not yet covered by platform documentation. Community resources are for the most part created and written by the people on the ground. People like you and me, developers who are working with the technologies in real-world projects. These resources take many different forms, from online magazines like Smashing Magazine and A List Apart and CSS-Tricks, to collaboration and knowledge-sharing platforms like Stack Overflow, to application specific websites and user forums like wordpress.org and community chats like Gatsby's Discord channel or personal blogs. If you're looking for hands-on, in-depth tutorials, examples, and case studies of how to achieve a goal or use a specific feature in a real-world application, community resources are usually the best way to go. I often say, if you're trying to solve a problem on the web, someone has probably already solved that problem and shared the code somewhere. That somewhere is more often than not on one of these community resources. So searching the community sites focused on whatever technology you're exploring is usually a good place to start. That said, some community resources are individuals who share their knowledge on personal sites. These are usually subject matter experts who publish large amounts of content on specific topics. Two prominent examples are Rachel Andrew's Grid by Example, the defacto Complete Guide to CSS Grid, and Zach Leatherman's personal blog, where you'll find the most up-to-date information about web font optimization. Now remember that pyramid I introduced earlier? Community resources are found at the bottom. There's more information here and more in-depth information, but the accuracy of that information is, mm, less accurate. Unlike the specification organizations and the platform documenters, community resources to not have a vested interest in keeping their information correct or accurate. And you're more likely to find old or outdated or just plain wrong information in this layer. Which begs the question, who can you trust? I can't give you a definitive answer here or even a comprehensive list, but I can give you some tips on measuring the quality of what you find. First off, start with a known reliable source, like A List Apart or Smashing Magazine or CSS-Tricks. They have an editorial process and vetting in place and you can trust information they share, at least for the most part. Next, look at the other things the authors on these platforms have shared. If you're researching SVGs, you'll find that Sara Soueidan and has published a fair bit of content on another platform, Tympanus Codrops. And that gives you another resource to go digging in. When looking at information, check the publishing date. If it's more than a couple of years old, there's a good chance it's outdated and you should look for something newer. We'll talk more about how to do that later. Also look at the comments. It's not uncommon for an article to be published and then a commenter pointing out an error or omission, or maybe a new and previously unknown resource or issue with the case. So comments usually contain more information, at least on the sites that moderate their comments. On knowledge sharing platforms like Stack Overflow, look at the date of the most popular answer, and also scan the other answers to see if there are alternative answers that work better for you. Also remember, these sites have gamification built in, so there's a bit of a competition and popularity contest going on. Meaning sometimes the top answers are not the best answers, they're just answers provided by the most popular answerers. Finally, cross-reference and verify the information you find, no matter where you find it. As an example, I often find JavaScript tutorials where Moment.js is used to handle time. But a quick check of the Moment website tells us Moment has been deprecated and they actually recommend using another library or just using the date object in JavaScript. They don't recommend using Moment. A quick search on MDN confirms that most of the features that are offered by Moment can now be achieved just using plain vanilla JavaScript. So there's really no reason to use Moment, it's just, we're used to it and a lot of the old tutorials still use Moment. So we think we still have to use it. Cross-reference your information and make sure it's up to date. Bottom line, community resources are great. They just need to be handled with due diligence.