Intro to media queries
- [Instructor] Media queries make it possible to selectively apply CSS based on specific conditions, such as different screen sizes or device orientation. Let's break down the syntax. Media queries start with @media, which is one of many CSS at-rules. We've talked about another one previously, at-font face. At-rules look similar to CSS declarations, but they are statements used to instruct CSS how to behave. The next part is the media type, which defines the broad category of device that is being used to display the website. There are three types. Print matches to printers and related displays like a Print Preview page shown in the browser. This media type would be used for creating style specific for printing. For example, removing the background color would be helpful so that someone who wants to print the page won't use up all their ink. Screen matches to devices with a screen. For responsive CSS, this media type is generally used, and all matches to all devices. If the media type is not explicitly defined, it will default to all. In the previous specification, there were more specific media types, but are now recommended by the W3C to no longer use. Instead, media features provide additional ways to test for specific features of the browser or device, such as resolution or device orientation. Media features look similar to CSS properties since they consist of a name, colon, and value, but the syntax is a bit different. They're always wrapped in parentheses and there is no semicolon. There are many media features available. For instance, you can test for a specific width to height aspect ratio of the Viewport. You can also test for different color features, height, orientation, and more. They can all be found listed on the MDN documentation. Responsive styles typically adjust to different screen sizes by targeting the width of the Viewport. The Width Media feature is used to test the exact width of the Viewport. efore responsive styles, it's usually more useful to use a range by using min-width or max-width media types. This will be our focus for the upcoming project updates. If you're using a media type with a media feature, the conditions are combined with logical operators. The key word "and" combines the type and features into one query. You can also create more complex queries using "and" to combine multiple media features. There are more logical operators as well, such as "not," "only," "comma," "and/or," but this level of complexity is more than what we need for this course, but it's all documented in the MDN Web Docs if you'd like to learn more. After defining the conditions for the query, the CSS to be applied is written just like any other CSS styles. It just needs to be contained within the curly brackets of the media query. All of these conditions must be true before the CSS is applied. This example translates to, when the browser Viewport is smaller than 650 pixels, apply the CSS contained within the query. If this condition is not met, the CSS is ignored. So now that we know how to write a media query, the next question is, where do we write the media query? One option is to add it below the related styles. Another option is to group all the media queries together and add it to the bottom of the CSS file. The media queries can also be written in its own separate style sheet. Let's say you want to create one just for mobile styles. The style sheet is loaded into the HTML file with the link tag, just like any other CSS file, but a media attribute must also be added. The media type and feature is added as the media value. This option may be more useful when working with a large project with a lot of CSS. Since the course project is a smaller project, we'll be adding the media queries to our existing CSS file.