Breakpoints and media queries
- [Instructor] Media queries are used to selectively apply CSS based on specific conditions. A breakpoint is the point where the media query is introduced to make these changes. In responsive web design, this is often a specific width of a screen or browser view port. In the early days of responsive design, it was common to use two to four breakpoints to target the width of specific device types, mobile, tablet, laptops, and desktops. But with the rise of the number of devices available, it's harder to pinpoint what is considered a common size. StatCounter is an analytics tool that provides various types of website user stats. Here are the screen resolution stats for the period of March 2022 to March 2023. The defaults show worldwide usage, but you can filter by region as well. Right now it's also showing all platforms, but you can filter by type to check specific device categories. I already have it open in my browser, since it sometimes takes a few minutes to load the chart. Here are the desktop stats with a bunch of different sizes as well as a large chunk categorized as other. We can see all the different resolutions on the left side of the bar graph. Here's the stats for tablets. As we can see, there's also various sizes here as well. Same with mobile screens. The most common media feature used for breakpoints is still width. Except these days it's better to choose breakpoints where the design and layout starts to break, rather than focusing on specific device sizes. The width media feature targets the width of the browser viewport. We can also use a min or max prefix to specify a minimum or maximum value. The width value is true when the viewport is exactly equal to the defined value. So using min or max width is better because it specifies a range such as larger than or smaller than. But when using min and max values, there's a possibility for conflict if the same breakpoint is used, since both range values include the value itself. To prevent both queries from being true at the same time, one of the breakpoints can be set to be one pixel smaller or larger. So how do you know when to use min width versus max width? Well, there are two schools of thought when designing for different screens. One is desktop first, meaning you design and write your CSS for bigger screens first. Media queries are then used to make changes for smaller screens. This approach usually uses max-width media queries. A mobile-first approach is the opposite. The designs in CSS are optimized for smaller sizes first. Then media queries are used to make changes for bigger screens. This approach usually uses min-width media queries. You can also combine both min and max to create a range. In this example, the media query only applies to a width between 400 and 800 pixels, nothing bigger or smaller. There are no limits to the number of breakpoints that can be added. However, as with writing CSS in general, it's recommended to use only what you need.