Fluid layouts
- [Instructor] We've talked about how to use media queries to make changes for any viewport width, but do we always need to use a media query? Remember, there are three ingredients for responsive web design: fluid layouts, flexible images, and media queries. Building your website on a flexible foundation first means you don't need to use media queries to target every possible size. Let's go over some techniques for creating a fluid layout, also referred to as a liquid layout. When setting the width of the page components, use percentage values or relative units where possible. Another option is to use the min and max-width properties which is the technique we applied to our content wrappers. In this scenario, using max-width allowed us to have precise control over how wide the content wrappers spanned on larger screens. Because we don't want it to get any larger than the maximum value on any screen, it makes sense here to use a pixel value, but for smaller screens, it's still flexible. Any viewport size smaller than the max-width spans the full width. So while we may need to make adjustments to other parts of the page when the content doesn't fit anymore, the content wrapper fits and flexes as needed for small and large screens. Using Flexbox and Grid will also ensure that your layouts are fluid since it's pretty much built into both of these layout modules. In the course project, we used the flex property to create the sticky footer. Since the height of the browser is not fixed, using flex allows the content to stretch relative to the size of the browser viewport at any given size in order to keep the footer aligned to the bottom of the page. We also used Grid with the fr unit to create flexible columns in the Work Experience section. Even though grid template columns was paired with a fixed width, the second column is still fluid and sized relative to the available space in the container. Just like page layouts, content containers, and other components on a webpage, setting your images to be flexible is another important part of creating a fluid layout. We've applied this to the background images in the course project with the use of background size set to cover. This makes it relative to the viewport. While fluid layouts may not solve everything, starting with flexible CSS will set the foundation for optimizing layouts for different screen sizes rather than relying solely on media queries.