Testing responsive layouts
- [Instructor] When testing responsive styles it's best to test on actual devices. While most developers will have access to at least one computer, and one phone or tablet having access to more than that isn't always possible, especially given the wide range of phones, tablets, laptops and desktop computers currently available. Another option is to use third-party services like Browser Stack, which provides tools for testing across various browsers and devices. A couple other options are Lambda Test and Sauce Labs. The pricing and features vary, but most will also offer a free tier. But we also have a great free option, your browser dev tools Let's open it up in our project page. For responsive testing, I find that docking the tools on the right side makes it easier to test for smaller sizes. To change the setting, select the icon on the right, the three dots, and choose Dock to Right. I'm still using Firefox, but you should see a similar icon in other browsers. Now, I can resize the viewport by resizing the panel rather than the browser window itself. In Firefox, there's an additional panel for displaying the CSS, but you can collapse it, or expand it by selecting this button on the top left. I'll collapse it just to be able to have more space in the CSS panel. Most responsive changes tend to be based on widths, so if we hover over the body element in the HTML panel we can see the width of the viewport. This can be helpful for identifying breakpoints. There's also a device emulation tool, which will give us some more testing options. To access it, select the icon that looks like a phone and a tablet. With this tool, we can get a general idea of how the webpage will look on different devices. Select the dropdown menu to see a list of device options. You can also edit the list to add different devices. Another option is to change the device orientation by selecting this phone icon. In Firefox, if you want to test specific sizes rather than devices you can just change the values in the text field. Or you can resize the viewport in the emulator. In other browsers, you may have to select Responsive in the dropdown menu first, before manually adding in the values, or resizing the emulator. Select the phone and tablet icon again to turn the device emulator off. It's not exactly the same as using a real device, but it can give you a pretty close approximation. And for simple projects, or early testing it does the trick, and it's free.