Project: Breakpoints
(upbeat music) - [Instructor] For this exercise, let's use the developer tools to test the current project layout and help us decide what break points to use. If you don't already have the dev tools open, go ahead and open it now. All right, let's do our first test, starting with the homepage. Rather than resizing the view port, I'm going to use the device emulator so I can resize that instead of the dev tools panel. I'll turn it on by selecting the devices icon. Since we have the content wrapper set to a max width of 900 pixels, I'm going to start at that width and work my way down to see where the layout starts to break. So let's resize this. So at around 700 pixels, the footer elements start to get too close. If we go smaller, the alignment is off. so we can take note of that for a possible breakpoint value. There's not much content on the homepage so there's not much to change. But as we get smaller, around 500 pixels, we can make some adjustments to the headings. We should probably make the text smaller and maybe remove some of the space around the content to allow for more text on smaller screens. And we probably don't need to load this big image for mobile users, so we could either remove it or swap it out for a smaller image. Now let's look at the resume page. This time we'll go smaller to bigger since I already have it here at just under 500 pixels. For the project section, we'll need to remove the floats. There's not enough room for the text to float next to the image. Same with the work experience section. This will need to be displayed as one column. The education section looks fine, so no changes needed there. and the footer will need to be changed for both the home and resume page. Also the fixed download PDF button is a lot more distracting at this size since it's now sitting on top of the content, so we can change the position of that as well. Let's make the view port bigger to see what breakpoint should be used to make the adjustment for the project and work experience section. For my project items, I don't want the text or buttons to wrap underneath the image and I want the content to also be the same height or shorter than the image. So for my longest block of text, it looks like around the 860 mark is about as small as I can go. For the work experience section, I could go a little smaller before it starts to break, but it looks like it's only about a 60 pixel difference. So I may as well just use the 860 pixel breakpoint as well. Depending on how much content you have, your values may be different. Plus it doesn't have to be exact. If you find one break point at 860 and another at 900, then you can just use 900. There's no limit to how many break points you can have, but adding too many can make your code more difficult to maintain. It may also lead to performance issues. As you probably already know by now, only include what you need.