Project: Media queries: Part 1
- [Instructor] In an earlier lesson, we talked about the different ways to add media queries. Since we'll mostly be adding changes to specific page components, I'll add the media queries underneath the related CSS, so we can group the styles together. Let's start with adjusting the float layout used with the project thumbnails. And I just noticed that I've been adding the project styles under profile, so I'll move the styles to the project section. Also, it doesn't look like I'll be adding profile-specific styles anyways, so I'll delete that as well. And this is an example of even when I try to stay organized, sometimes things still need to be double checked. Let's get back to the project. Under the last project item style, let's add the @media rule. Next is the media type, which is screen. This value is optional, so if you don't add it, it will default to all. This will also work for responsive changes. Then we'll add the and operator to add the media feature which will be the screen width. So let's add the parentheses. For the breakpoint, a width of 860 pixels was where the float style was starting to break. Now we need to decide if we should use max width or min width, since we only want the float to be applied. When the screen is 860 pixels or larger, we should use min width. min-width, add the colon, 860 pixels. Then we'll add the curly brackets. Now any style added here will be applied at a minimum width of 860 pixels or larger. Since we don't need the float for the smaller screens, let's just move the float related styles to this media query. So for the project item, we'll move just the flow root value. We'll keep the margin style where it is since we always want to have that spacing between the items regardless of the screen size. So I'll just copy this, move it here, delete the margin style from the media query and delete the flow root style from the project item outside of the media query. For the project image we'll move the float and margin right style. Okay, let's save the file and test these updates. So let's put this at 860, and let's make it a little smaller and see what happens to the float. I need to refresh the page first to see the updates. Let's try that again. I'll put this at 860. Alright, so 860 and larger. The items are floated and 859 and smaller, the float has been removed. Now let's just look at the final version for a second. When we got to a smaller size, there wasn't enough space to float the images and the text but there is enough space to arrange the projects into two columns. So let's do that by adding some grid styles. Back in the editor we'll need to create a container around just the project items to make a grid container. So in the resume page, let's go down to the project section. We can't use the existing section container because we don't want the heading and intro paragraph to be part of the two column layout. So let's add a div around the project items and add a class. We'll call this project wrapper. Just collapse these sections just to make it easier to see where I need to add the opening and closing div. So we'll add the opening div just before the first project item and the closing div just after the last project item. And I'll reformat it and add a class which I'll name project wrapper. Now let's switch over to the CSS file to add the media query. We're going to use max width this time because we want this to apply to the screens that are smaller than 860 pixels which is where we remove the float. But we don't want any styles to conflict between the min and max values, which are using the same breakpoint. So let's set this break point to a max width of 859 pixels. We can add it before or after the other media query. I'll add it after. I'll just copy this media query and change it to max width of 859 pixels and add the closing curly bracket. And now we can add the styles in between. To create two columns we'll use the project wrapper class as our grid container. Add the selector and set the display value to grid. Then we'll use grid template columns to create two columns. Since there'll be two equal columns, I'll use the repeat function. Repeat, parentheses, two columns, comma and 1fr to make them equal. I'll also include a column gap of 20 pixels to add space between the columns. Now for the width of the project image we were able to use 300 pixels before because I wanted it to be a specific size and have the text fill up the remaining space. But for this style, we want the image to flex to the size of the columns, which is relative to the viewport. So using the project item, space, img selector, set the width to a hundred percent. So it will always be the same size as its container which will be the columns. Now let's save the files and check the update. Now we can see the columns once the viewport is smaller than 860 pixels. Also notice that the images will also flex to the width of the column as well. But at a smaller point, we'll need this section to go back to one column. Again, it looks like just under 600 pixels the design starts to break. But I'll choose a break point of 650 just to give the columns a little more breathing room. But instead of adding another break point and changing the styles for the smaller screen, let's use min and max width together. So back in the CSS file, we'll add another condition. We'll adjust this media query to include a range instead. So before max width, let's add a min width value. And for here we'll use that value of 650 pixels and add the and operator in between. Let's save the file and see how this looks. With this condition, these styles will only be applied when the viewport is 650 pixels to a maximum of 859 pixels. So when we get to a smaller size, we go down to one column, two columns, then the floated styles. Under 650 pixels there's a little extra space. Let me try setting the image size to a hundred percent but I'll do it here in the browser DevTools just to test it out. So between about 500 to 650, the image is a little too big for the space but it works for under 500. So I made note of the need to update the main headings at 500 pixels as well in the previous exercise. So I'll use this as a breakpoint for this update too. We can also add a little margin space between the image and the header. 10 pixels should do it. Let's go back to the CSS file and add in this style. For this media query, we'll use max width since this will be for viewports that are 500 pixels and smaller. So we'll add another media query, @media screen and parentheses with a max width value of 500 pixels. We'll add our curly brackets and then select the project item image, img. We'll set the width to a hundred percent and add a margin bottom of 10 pixels. Save the file and go back to the browser. So now when the viewport is under 500 pixels, the thumbnail will span the width of the viewport. Between around 500 to 650, there's a bit of extra space, but nothing is broken so I feel okay to leave it here rather than adding another media query. Once we hit 650, we go back to two columns and then back up to the floated image at 860. Let's make one more update to the download PDF button, since it's fixed on top of the page content. For the smaller screen sizes, we'll take the fixed positioning off. I'm going to close the DevTools so I can make this viewport wider and see what size the button can remain fixed. So it looks like around 1200 pixels wide. The button can remain fixed since it's just floating on top of extra space. So let's go back to the CSS file and add a media query for this style. So under the original download style link, I'll use max width to set the position. We'll add our media query, @media screen and max width of 1200 pixels. And then we will use the download link selector again. And this time we'll use a position value of absolute instead. Now this will be applied to any screen that is 1200 pixels wide or smaller. Let's save the file and test the update. So right now it's still fixed and if I make it smaller, it switches to absolute, so it's still positioned at the top left corner of the page. But as you scroll the page, it won't stay fixed on top of the content. Your website visitors will still be able to see it right away but it'll be a less distracting experience. In the next project update we'll continue to add more responsive styles.