Project: Media queries: Part 2
- [Instructor] For the work experience section, we were already using grid. So let's see how the styles hold up in viewports smaller than 860 pixels. It looks like it doesn't hold up for too long and starts to look squished at just under 800 pixels. In the dev tools, we can uncheck a CSS declaration to see how the work items will look without the grid style. This is great for testing. So we'll uncheck the display grid to temporarily remove the styles. Starting at 860, it's a little wider than I would like, but around 750 it looks fine to me. So just like the project thumbnails, I'm okay with having a small range where things aren't totally perfect but also not broken. So this layout looks fine until we get down to the smallest viewport, which according to stat counter is 360 pixels. There's one thing I'd like to change for this one column layout. We had removed the padding from the top of the first paragraph of the work summary column, but when it's one column, we need that space back to add some separation between the details and the summary. So let's go back to the editor and add these changes. Under the work experience section, we'll use the same min width value of 860 pixels. This will add the grid styles to viewport sizes that are larger. We'll add our at media query, screen, and parentheses with the min width of 860 pixels. Add the work item selector, then move just the grid styles to this media query. Then we'll move the work-summary p:first-child style to this media query as well since that's also related to the grid styles. Let's go back to the browser and test these changes. Now for less than 860 pixels view port widths the space between the work details and work summary is back. And for larger view ports two column style is still applied. We're almost done with the resume page. There's just two more things I'd like to change. Let's scroll up to the top and look at the header styles starting at the smallest viewport size, 360 pixels. The header image and font sizes definitely need to be smaller. But around 500 pixels, the name and title fits within the width of the page again, which works out because I already have a 500 pixel breakpoint. So we can use this as our max width value to adjust the header styles for smaller screens. Before updating the CSS, let's choose a small device from the emulator to see how little space we have to work with. I'll go with the iPhone SE. Though we can see the name and title, we can't see anything else without scrolling. So let's shorten the header image in addition to making the header text smaller. I'll test out different values in the dev tools. For the header image, select the before element since this is where we added the image. Now let's adjust the height and see how small we can make it. I'll try 200 pixels. I like it at this height because it's smaller but it still shows the computer just underneath the button. In addition to reducing the height value here, this is where we should create a smaller file for mobile. As much as you try to plan ahead, you'll likely need to create or even recreate assets later as you build out your projects. For now, I'm just going to continue to use this image file for the remainder of this demo. Now let's select the H1 to make the font size smaller. I'll use my arrow keys to reduce it one value at a time. 5rem works pretty good. Now let's try updating the H2. It looks like for me 2.5rem allows the title to stay on one line. I wouldn't mind it being a little bigger though. So let's see if changing the "and" to a plus symbol will give me any more space. To edit the HTML in the browser dev tools right click and choose edit as HTML. Then change whatever you'd like. I'm going to remove this "and" and replace it with a plus symbol instead. Then click outside of the edit area to see the updates. Now let's see if I can make the font size bigger while keeping the title on one line. So it looks like 2.6 fits and 2.7 fits as well. And 2.8 it starts to break. But I preferred 2.6 and let's take it down to the smallest size again, 360, and see how that looks. So everything still fits on one line. So before we accidentally refresh the browser and lose everything, let's add these styles to the CSS file. Don't worry, I've been keeping track of all these changes. So back in the editor we'll add a media query for these changes. Let's go to the resume section to add these styles. I'll just add it under this media query. And for this one we'll use max width, 500 pixels. Then we'll add the resume header and before pseudo class selector, so we can adjust the height of the image. Dot resume, space header. And remember the before pseudo class needs two colons and no spaces, and I will set mine to a height of 200 pixels. Then we'll add the H1 selector to reduce the font size, which I'll set to 5rem. And for the H2 I'll set the font size to 2.6. And for the last change, I'll go over to the resume HTMO file, and in the title, the H2 title, I'll change the "and" to a plus symbol and do the same on the homepage as well for consistency. All right, save all the files and refresh the browser. Now the header styles have been optimized for smaller screens. We're done making changes to the resume page, but done is never really done. There's probably little changes you'll still want to make and now you have the tools to do so. When working with responsive CSS I had to learn to make peace with the fact that the layout won't be perfect at every single possible viewport size. The most important part is making sure that the content isn't blocked and you're making the best use of the space you have. In the next and last exercise of the course we'll finish up with adding responsive styles to the homepage and the footer.