Project: Media queries: Part 3
- [Instructor] Let's start this update by checking how the homepage looks at different breakpoints. Some of the updates we made in the previous lesson were using shared selectors, but the homepage layout is also slightly different from the resume page. We'll start by testing the smallest viewport width, 360 pixels. At this size, we could reduce the amount of spacing around the content-wrapper just to give a little more space to the text content. The footer also needs to be adjusted. The next breakpoint is 500 pixels. Everything at this size looks fine, except for the footer, so we know the change has to start at a larger size. Now let's check the next breakpoint, 650. So aside from the footer, this layout looks fine as well, but let's see how it looks between the two breakpoints. So at just after 500 pixels, the heading styles start to break. The text wraps over two lines. So I could make changes to the space around the content-wrapper at this point. Let's test it out in the dev tools. Let's change the padding for the content-wrapper on the homepage to 10 pixels. And for the padding in the content-bg container, we can reduce that as well. Let's try changing that to 20 pixels. Now the headings will fit all the way down from this breakpoint to 360 pixels. So now let's see at what size the footer needs to be adjusted. So around 675 up to our next breakpoint, 860. So we could just make the change here. To make the footer fit for all smaller screen sizes, let's stack the footer text on top of the social media icons and center align it. Let's switch over to the editor and add these adjustments. In the CSS file, let's update the content-wrapper for the homepage. We'll go to our home section and add a media query here, @media screen and our max-width. We'll start with 650. So this is where we'll adjust the padding in the wrapper and the content-bg to make space for the headings in the smaller screen sizes. So I will just copy this selector here and add a padding of 10 pixels, and for the content-bg, I will take that down to 20 pixels. Now for the footer, we'll use a media query with a min-width value of 860. Since we're using min-width, this means 860 and larger. So we'll move the flex styles to this media query. That way, the footer content and social media lists will be aligned on opposite ends. So all the flex related styles are these last three. Copy it from here and add it to the media query. For the smaller screen sizes, the footer isn't wide enough to align the content and social media lists on opposite ends. So we'll just center align the content instead. So now we'll need to add another media query for sizes that are smaller than 860. So for this, we'll use a max-width value of 859. We'll add our footer selector and then text-align set to center, and we'll add a little padding of 10 pixels so the content in the smaller screens don't line up right to the edge. We'll save the file and check these changes in the browser. So here we are at 865 pixels wide. Now let's see how it looks. So just under 860, the footer has changed to be center aligned, and let's see how it looks as we get smaller. There's the other shift. We have more space around the content-wrapper now, and one more shift with the font size changing, and we'll get down to 360 pixels. Depending on your content and font choices, you may find that you'll need to make revisions here and there that are different than mine. Our page layout wasn't too complex, but we also created a fluid foundation. So oftentimes, if your layout is flexible to begin with, many of the responsive changes are just these little fixes. We've come to the end of the course and the project exercise, but it doesn't have to end here. Now that you have some tools under your belt, you can continue to experiment and customize your projects. For example, here's a challenge. On the homepage, it would be best to remove this large background image since you can't see much of it anyway, so it may not be worth the page load to add this large image to a small phone, or your option is to replace it with a smaller image that fits the space better and is smaller in file size. It doesn't hurt to even start from the beginning and see what you can build on your own now that you've seen the bigger picture.