The box model properties
- [Instructor] Every element is displayed as a box in the browser. The CSS box model describes how these elements are displayed, which consists of four parts. The content box contains the content added using the HTML tags. The padding box surrounds the content and adds space inside of the element. The border box surrounds the padding area and the margin box surrounds the entire element. These boxes are represented by five CSS properties: width, height, padding, margin, and border. Let's review the syntax and usage. The width and height properties are used to set the width and height of an element's content box. They can be used with keywords, length and percentage values. You can also set a minimum or maximum value with min-width, max-width, min-height, and max-height properties. The padding property defines the space inside of an element and around the content box. It can be defined with length or percentage values. All values must be positive numbers. If an element already has default padding, setting it to zero will remove the padding space. Also, a zero value can be used with or without a unit. Padding can be defined using one to four values. One value applies equal padding space to all sides. Two values applies the first value to the top and bottom and the second value to the left and right. Multiple values must be separated by a space. Three values applies the first value to the top, the second value to the right and left, and the third value to the bottom. Four values follows a clockwise order with the first value for the top, the second for the right, the third for the bottom, and the fourth for the left. The longhand properties, padding-top, padding-right, padding-bottom and padding-left can be used to set the padding for a specific side and are only defined with one value. The margin property defines the space around an element. It's also used with the length and percentage values but they can be positive or negative numbers. You can also use the keyword auto. I'll talk a little more about this in an upcoming lesson. The shorthand and longhand syntax rules are the same as padding. It can also be used with one to four values. The longhand properties adds the margin to a specific side. Though the browser may view each element as a box, there are no actual visual borders, but the border property can be used to display a border style, which is added between the margin and padding of an element. The border property is also shorthand for border-width, border-style, and border-color. When using the shorthand syntax, the order of the values do not matter. Each value though must be separated by a space. For border-width, you can use any length values or the keywords thin, medium, or thick. For border-color, any type of color value can be used. Border-style is only used with keyword values. None and hidden will display no border and the other keywords will display different styles. For example, double will show two solid lines while dotted will show a dotted border. Each of these longhand properties are actually shorthand for more longhand properties. For example, border-width is shorthand for border-top-width, border-left-width, border-right-width and border-bottom-width. These longhand properties can get pretty specific. So I would suggest referring to the MDN documentation if you would like to dive a little deeper.