Box-sizing and the box model fix
- [Presenter] Using different box model properties affects the overall size of the element. This behavior can be managed with the box-sizing property, which defines how the total width and height of an element are calculated. There are two values, content-box and border-box. The default box-sizing value is content-box. The width and height values apply to the content-box of the element. Any added border or padding styles will increase the element's total size. Margin adds space around the element, so it's not included in the total size of the element, but it does affect how much space the element takes up. When the border-box value is used, the width and height will still be applied to the content-box. However, when padding and border styles are added, the content-box shrinks to maintain the same overall size as defined by the width and height properties. Again, margin is not included in these adjustments, since it adds space around the element. Let's look at a code pen demo to see how this works. Here are two boxes. The first one has the default box sizing value of content-box, and the second one has a value of border-box. Usually, you don't need to declare a default style, but I just added it here to make it easier to see for this demo. Right now, the width, height, and margin have been set. Margin will have no effect on the box sizing, so the size of the elements for both boxes is still 200 by 100 pixels. Also, note that the text is currently aligned to the top left edge of its container. Now let's add the padding style in. We can see that it's been added to both boxes, because the text is no longer lined up to the edge of the box. The padding has been added around the content-box, but now, box 1 is larger than box 2. There's now 200 pixels of width, plus 20 pixels of padding on the left and right sides, which equals 240 pixels for the total width. And for the height, it's set to 100 pixels, plus 20 pixels of padding on the top and bottom for a total of 140 pixels for the height of the element. For box 2, using a value of border-box will decrease the size of the content-box, shrinking it just enough to make space for the padding. So the total size of box 2 is still 200 by 100 pixels. The same effect will happen when adding a border style. If I wanted box 1 to remain the same overall size as what was initially set, we'll need to reduce the width and height values to account for the padding and border. So for the width, it would be 200 minus 20 pixels of left padding, 20 pixels of right padding, minus 10 pixels of border on the left and 10 pixels of border on the right, which equals 140 pixels. I'll add it to the box 1 selector, so we can compare its size to box 2. For the height value, change it to 40 pixels to make room for the top and bottom padding and border styles. So while you can make these adjustments, it's generally easier to size elements using the border box behavior, because you won't need to adjust the width and height every time you add padding or border styles. Maintaining the same width is important when fitting multiple elements into a specific space. For example, with the default box sizing of content-box, trying to add four 100 pixel elements won't fit in a 400-pixel container when padding or border is added. So when starting a project, it's common to add what's often referred to as the box model fix, which is a CSS code snippet included in your CSS file. This will apply the border box value to all the elements on the page. The box sizing is first applied to the root element and is one of the special scenarios where the universal selector is used to make all the descendant elements and pseudo elements inherit this style. This fix was first documented by Paul Irish. If you'd like to learn more about the history and changes to the fix over the years, check out the extra resources included in the links.PDF file.