Inline, block, and display
- As we've been building out our projects and doing CodePen examples, you may have noticed that HTML elements are arranged in certain ways. For example, why do links line up side by side while headings and paragraphs stack on top of each other? That's because every HTML element falls into two categories, block or inline, which determine how they occupy space on the page. Block elements are the same height as the content contained between their tags, but they span the entire width of their containing element even if the content itself does not. This is why block elements always start on a new line. Most elements are block elements. Some commonly used ones are paragraphs, headings and sectioning elements like article and section. Inline elements are the same size as their content. They're also displayed in a line, side by side starting from the left. The elements will wrap to the next line only if the content can't fit on the same line. Some common inline elements are anchor tags, which are used for links span and strong. The CSSS display property can be used to change the default behavior of block and inline elements using one of three values, block, inline or inline block. Let's pull up an example in CodePen. A quick way to check if an element is block or inline is to see how it's displayed when two elements are written consecutively in the HTML markup. Does the element display on a new line or does it display on the same line? In this example, the divs are displayed on their own line, even though the content doesn't span all the way across, so they must be block elements. The span elements are inline since they are lined up side by side to each other. Let's add the background style for both the div and span just to make it a little easier to see what type of element they are. If the color stretches all the way across the container it's a block element. If it only spans the width of its content then it's an inline element. Now let's take a look at how the box model properties are displayed with block and inline elements. For block elements, setting the width and height will change the size of the element. For inline elements, adding width and height will have no effect. For block elements, setting margin adds space around the element. That's why the background color doesn't extend to this space. It will also push the element from its original position to accommodate the added space. For inline elements, even when margin is added to the top and bottom the space is only displayed on the left and right sides. Inline elements will shift to the left and right to accommodate the added space, but they will maintain their vertical positioning. For block elements, padding adds space inside the element and also adjusts its positioning to fit the added space. When adding padding to the inline element the space will be displayed on all four sides, but just like margin, it will still maintain its vertical position and if it takes up more space than what's available it will overlap the surrounding elements. We'll see the same display behavior for block and inline element when the border style is added. These default behaviors can be changed with the display property. Let's set the display value to block for the inline elements. This will apply all box model properties as they would be applied for block elements. The same is true when setting display inline to a block element. It will now display with the characteristics of inline elements. There is one more display value that we can use to apply a mix of characteristics of both inline and block elements. The value is aptly called inline block. Let's change the display value for the div element to inline block. With this style all the box model properties are applied, just like block elements, but the elements are displayed side by side, just like inline elements. This is a good example of separating content from style. You may want your elements to display on a new line or on the same line, but instead of picking an element that looks a particular way choose the most semantic HTML element for the content and change the display with CSS.