Project: Footer styles and icons
(lively music) - [Instructor] In this project update, we'll be styling the social media list and the icons, but the first thing we'll do is add the box model fix. You can copy this snippet from the text file in the exercise files. Let's add it to the top of our CSS file right before body as the first global style. It may need to be reformatted since I copied it from the text file. Now let's style the social media list in the footer. Since the list items are block elements, right now, the footer just looks like a big block, so let's change that. Back in the editor, in the index.html file, we're going to go down to the UL tag in the footer and add a class. We only want to apply styles to this list so I'm going to name this socials. Then, we'll add the same class to the list in the resume file so both pages will share this style. Then in the CSS file, create a socials declaration block under the footer section. .socials as the selector, add the curly brackets, and then we'll add a property called list style type set to none. List-style-type. Setting it to none will remove the default bullet style. Then we'll also set the padding to zero to remove the default padding style. When we use zero as the value, we don't need to add a unit. Now, let's save all the files and refresh the browser to see the changes. Padding space and the bullets have now been removed so the next step is to resize the icons and line them up side by side. Let's go back to the editor and go to the index.html file. Looking at this markup, we want to target this image tag inside the socials list. There are a couple ways we can do it. We can add a class directly to each image tag and use that as the selector, or we can use the existing socials class and use a descendant selector. Adding a class directly to the element can help with performance because the browser will only have to cycle through one selector, but in this case, the descendant selector is only two levels deep and it's a short list, so either option can work. This is one of those times where there's no clear, right way just a personal preference. Although, I'm sure there are passionate opinions for each option. I'm going to go with the descendant selector options, socials img. Back in the CSS file let's add this new declaration block. .socials, space img, curly brackets. Now let's set the width of the icons to 32 pixels. Then we're going to align the list items to be side by side so we'll need to add another selector. We can use another descendant selector. .socials space li to target the list items. The image tag is nested inside the li tag. I'll just add this selector before socials.img. In this case, the order doesn't matter because I'm selecting different elements, but I like to group my CSS in the order that it's written in in the html. Now, let's use the display property and set it to inline block. This will align the list items side by side, like inline elements, but if we choose to add other box model properties to the list items, they will be applied like block elements. Let's save the files and see how this looks in the browser. The icons are now a lot smaller and they're lined up in a row. That's it for this project update. We still need to add spacing between the list items and icons, but we'll be using Flexbox for those styles later in the course.