Debugging with developer tools
- [Instructor] Some elements have default margin and padding styles, which can make it hard to tell where the space is coming from. To identify the source, we can use the built-in browser developer tools to inspect the element. Let's go over an example. If you'd like to follow along, open the box-model.html page in your browser. It can be found in the exercise files, in chapter three, video 03_06. I'll be using Firefox and Chrome for this demo, but the developer tools in other browsers will have similar functionality. I'll start with Firefox. To inspect an element and open the dev tools, hover over an element with your mouse or track pad. Let's go with Heading 1. Then, right-click or use a two finger tap to open the menu and select Inspect or Inspect Element. A panel will open showing the page's HTML and the corresponding CSS. My h1 is highlighted, since that's the element I inspected, but if you weren't able to select the element you were hoping to inspect, you can just click on the element in the HTML panel. Another option is to click the pointer icon, then hover over the element in the viewport. Click on it to select it. In Firefox, there's a visualization of the box model styles for the selected element shown in its own panel under the Layout tab. In Chrome, you'll see it in the Styles tab, underneath the CSS declarations. The color coding is a bit different, but the visualization is the same. The styles shown here can come from either the default browser styles or CSS we've added to the project. The styles listed under user agent stylesheet is the default browser styles. And the styles listed using the file name are the styles we added. The 8 at the end of the line is where the style is contained in the file. If I click on it, here is what the HTML markup looks like, and this h1 style is on line 8. Let's click back on the Elements tab to get back to our HTML and CSS. In Firefox, the user agent styles are turned off by default. To turn this feature on, select the three dots in the toolbar, select Settings, and under Inspector, check Show Browser Styles. And let's go back to see Inspector to see the HTML and CSS, and now we could see the user agent styles. Okay, let's go back to looking at the box model styles. We can see the size of the content box, which is the text between the h1 tags, followed by the padding and border, which surround the content, and the margin around the entire element. In the CSS panel, we can see the padding and border styles that I've added. Says there is 10 pixels of padding, which is also reflected in the diagram. Let's uncheck the padding declaration to temporarily remove the style, which will be reflected in the diagram, as well. Now it says there's zero padding. Check the style to add it back in. You can even edit these values to experiment right in the browser. Just click on the declaration to make a change. Let's change the border to one pixel. Note that these values are not saved to the actual CSS file. This is just for testing and debugging. If we refresh the browser, it will reset any changes made in the dev tools. For the margin box, this is the default margin we're looking at. In the box model diagram, the left and right values for margin are zero, because the default styles are only applied to the top and bottom. If you hover over the various Box Model Properties, the corresponding color coded areas will be highlighted in the viewport as well, which can be super helpful when debugging. While we're here, let's talk about a behavior called margin collapsing. When I hover over the h1 in the HTML panel, we can see the margin bottom space highlighted in yellow, which stops right above the content box of the h2 below it. Now, if I hover over the h2, the margin top stops right below the content box of the h1. So both of these margins are occupying the same space, even though they're coming from two different elements. This behavior only affects the top and bottom margins. In the next lesson, I'll go over how to manage this margin collapsing with CSS. We just did a quick overview of the browser developer tools, but there are more features to explore. We'll continue to use the dev tools throughout the rest of this course, but if you would like to dive a little deeper, check out my Workflow Tools for Web Developers course.