Managing box model quirks
- [Instructor] So far, we've looked at a couple ways to test and inspect the different box model styles. Now let's look at some known quirks, and how to manage them. We'll start by focusing on the two paragraph elements, and discuss the behavior I mentioned in the previous lesson, margin collapsing. I've added a background color to this example so we can see the space between the paragraphs, which is coming from a default margin style. Since HTML was created for research documents, it makes sense for paragraphs to have this default style. Otherwise, it would just be a big block of text. And just note that not all HTML elements have default margin or padding styles. But let's say you wanted to remove the space or make it smaller. Currently this space is being occupied by the margin bottom of the first paragraph in the margin top of the second paragraph. If we were to remove the bottom margin of the first paragraph using the first block style, it would look like there's been no change, and that's because this space is still coming from the top margin of the second paragraph. But if we remove the top margin from the second paragraph, then we'll see the change. There will no longer be any space between them. Now let's shift the focus to the two inline elements, which by default are lined up side-by-side. But notice that there's a little bit of space in-between them, and it's not a default margin style. So setting it to zero would make no difference. It's actually coming from the line break in the HTML. If we were to put both of these tags on the same line, the space will be gone. That technically fixes the issue, but writing all your HTML on one line will make it really hard to read. So there are a couple other ways to get around this. One way is to use margin left with a negative value to nudge it over. I'll make a class for the second span because this is the one I want to move over. I'll name it close gap, and then I'll add the selector to the CSS panel. Then add a margin value of negative four pixels. (keyboard typing) This will only work with margin because padding does not accept negative values. Another option is to reduce the space between the elements using the font size property set to zero. Font size is used to change the size of text, but it also applies to any characters including spaces. Let's comment out this close gap style. Then we'll create a container just for the span elements. I'll use a div with a class of container. (keyboard typing) Okay, so now I have both of my span tags enclosed in container, which is where I'll add a font size property with a value of zero. I'll add the class to the CSS panel, and set it to font size zero. This is an inheritable style, so it sets everything within the container element to zero, including the space between the span elements, and the content in the span elements. So we'll have to re-declare the font size for the child elements. So in the span declaration block, add the font size property there, and reset the value to 16 pixels. Now the space between the span elements is gone, and the font size for the span elements are applied. When there's no background color, the gap between inline elements isn't noticeable, but when using inline elements with a specific width inside a container that also has a specific width, the extra space may need to be removed. Newer layout techniques like flex box, and grid generally work better for this scenario, and will be covered later in the course.