Project: Background image update
(upbeat music) - [Tutor] Continuing with another project update, let's revisit the homepage background image that was added in chapter two. The background size property was set to cover to fill the entire space. But when the browser is resized to a smaller width and a longer height the image no longer covers the bottom area. Now that we know a little more about using developer tools, let's inspect the issue. Right click anywhere on the page and select inspect or inspect element. Then click the three dots on the right of the menu bar and choose the icon to dock the tool to the right side of the browser. Now we'll be able to inspect the page while the viewport is at a smaller size and have more space to view the HTML and CSS panels. Hover over the body element in the HTML panel. Notice that only the area with content is being highlighted. This is also true of the HTML element. We added the background image to the body element to apply the image to the entire page. However, elements default to the height of their content. So we need to tell the browser to make the body element span the full height of the viewport even when the content doesn't. Let's go back to the editor. In the CSS file, we'll use the height property to make the body element the same height as the browser viewport. So go to the top of your CSS file and we're actually going to add a selector list. We'll also apply this to the HTML element for good measure. So just before the body tag, I'm going to add my selector list with HTML, body. Then add the height property set to 100%. Save the file and refresh the browser. Now the image spans all the way to the bottom and if we hover over the body element in the HTML panel, we can see that it now covers the entire page instead of just the content. Also notice the highlight around the body element. That's the default margin. This is why we can see a gap on the left and right sides of the main content and the footer. The margin is also shown in the box model diagram. We can see that there is a default value of eight pixels of margin. There's also some space at the top but that's actually coming from the default margin in the H1 element. Let's leave that as is for now. But we're going to go back to the CSS file and remove the margin from the body selector. We will set this value to zero, save the file and refresh the browser. Now the content will span all the way across. In this update, we were able to move the background image to the bottom of the page. However, the footer still needs to be repositioned to the bottom of the page as well, but we'll address that later in the course. That's it for this update, but there are more project exercises at the end of this chapter, so keep your editors open.