Using negative margin values
- [Instructor] Unlike other box model properties, margin can be used with both positive and negative values. We just used a negative value in the last exercise but let's take a closer look at how it all works. In this example, we'll apply positive and negative values to the second box to see how the surrounding elements are affected by these values. Let's start with a stacked example. Adding a positive value for margin top and margin bottom is as we discussed in previous lessons. It will push the surrounding elements away from the top and bottom sides. But if we change the top value to negative 20, it will bring the proceeding element closer which will make it overlap. The same applies when using a negative bottom value, except that the element below is brought closer. Adding a positive margin right value doesn't show any change. A negative value doesn't either. That's because there are no other elements to the right that would be pushed out or pulled in. If we add a margin right value to the side by side example below, we'll see the element to the right of it get pushed away. Using a negative margin right value for the side by side example will cause the element to the right to be pulled in. Back in the stacked example, the position margin left value will show a change. The element itself will be pushed away from the left side. A negative value will pull it back from the left. For the side by side example, a positive top value pushes the element down. A negative value will pull it up and for the margin bottom, a positive or negative value won't show any change because there are no elements below it to see anything get pushed or pulled. And lastly, a positive margin value will push it away from the element on its left side. A negative value will pull it over. Negative margin values are best used to nudge elements just outside of their default position as we did with the previous inline element exercise. If you need to move an element to a completely different location on the page, it's usually better to restructure the HTML or use a different layout technique. This helps to maintain the natural flow of the page as much as possible. We'll be discussing different layout techniques in the upcoming chapters.