Center aligning with margin
- [Instructor] There's one more thing to know about margins. This property can also be used with the auto value to center-align block elements. Let's try this out in a CodePen. To center-align the elements, the first thing we'll do is add a width to the section element. Any value can be used, it just needs to be smaller than the viewport. If the element spans all the way across, then there would be no need to center-align it. I'll go with 400 pixels. For the margin, the top and bottom value can be set to whatever you want. If you don't want any additional space, just set it to 0. Then set the left and right values to auto. I'll be using the two value format, so 0 for the top and bottom and auto for left and right. Make sure there's a space between the two values. The horizontal space is now split evenly between the left and right margins, and the element is center-aligned. Now, you might be thinking, if I set all four sides to auto, it should align the element horizontally and vertically, right? Unfortunately, margin just doesn't work that way, but this can be achieved with flexbox, which we'll be discussing later. I'll just change the top and bottom value back to 0. But wait a minute, why is there still a space at the top of the output panel? This can't be coming from the margin since I set it to 0, but it's actually a default margin on the body element, which surrounds all the content. CodePen is a tool that was created to focus on isolated concepts so you don't have to include the body element in the HTML panel. It's already included in the backend of the tool. But we can still use it as a selector and remove the extra space around the output panel by adding a 0 margin to the body element. Now, the default space has been removed. When content spans across a webpage, it makes it hard to read on larger screens as we've seen in the current state of our course project. So this technique is often used to keep the page content from spanning all the way across, while also ensuring that the content stays in the middle. However, this method may pose a problem depending on how you want to style these blocks. In this example, the background color only spans the width of the content. But what if you want the background, color, or image to expand the entire width of the page, but keep the content in the middle? To accomplish this, create a container just for the content. In the HTML panel, add a div around the content only. We're going to use a div here because this element has no semantic meaning. It's just being used as a container for styling purposes. Take your closing tag and add it just after the last paragraph. And I'm just going to fix the indentation. Now, let's add a class to the div. I'll call mine content-wrapper. Then we'll add this to our CSS as our selector, .content-wrapper plus the curly brackets. Now, we're going to move all of our styles here except for the background styles. Now, the background color is applied to the whole section. The content wrapper container is now used to center-align just the content. We'll be using this technique to align the content blocks in our projects.