Project: Adding content wrappers
(upbeat music) - [Instructor] Let's start this exercise by looking at the finished project to figure out where to put the content wrapper divs. On the homepage, the content is centered, but we want the footer to span all the way across. So we don't need to include the footer in the content wrapper. The same is true on the resume page in regards to the footer. Also, the header image spans all the way across as well, but the content, which is the name and title, doesn't span all the way across. So for the resume page, we'll need to create a content wrap just for the header content that is separate from the rest of the resume content. Back in the editor, let's look at the markup in the index.html file. If we scroll up to the top of the page, we can see that we've already added a content wrapper container in a previous exercise, but we use this with the descendant selector home to apply the background color to the text just on the homepage. But we can reuse the content wrapper class to center align the content on both pages. In the resume.html file, we'll need to add this container div. Let's start from the top. For the header, we just want to wrap the text content, so let's add the divs around just the H1 and H2. I'll take the closing div and move it just after the closing H2 and reformat it. Then I'll add the class of content wrapper. For the rest of the content, we can add this class to the main element. If I collapse the code in the main tag, we can see more easily that it wraps around all the content after the header and before the footer, which is what we need to center align this content. So let's add the same content wrapper class here, and then we'll switch over to our CSS file. Now, let's add this selector under the global section since this style will be applied to both the homepage and the resume page. I'm going to add it right after the link styles. Let's add the margin value. The top and bottom value can be anything you want. I'm going to set it to zero because I don't want any extra space, but the second value needs to be set to auto to auto align the left and right sides. Then we'll need to add a width. The size that you set for the content often depends on your page layout and the size of your fonts. Let's try a width of 900 pixels and see how that looks. We'll go over to the browser and refresh the page to see the updates. And here's how it looks on the resume page. For desktop size screens, this looks fine, but for smaller screens or if the browser has been resized, the content will scroll horizontally if the viewport is smaller than the fixed width of 900 pixels. So let's go back to the editor and change this to max width instead. We can still use a fixed value, but now it's set to a maximum value. Let's go back to the browser and see this update. Using max width will set the content wrapper to a maximum of 900 pixels. This will keep it from getting too wide, but if the browser viewport is less than 900 pixels, then the width becomes equal to 100% of its container. But we don't want the content to go right up to the edge of the container as well. But instead of changing the width for smaller viewports, let's just add some padding to add space inside the container. We'll go back to our content wrapper CSS and add a padding value of 30 pixels. I like to keep my margin and padding styles together, so I'll just add it underneath margin. Now this will add 30 pixels of padding to all four sides. Let's save the file again and refresh the browser. So now we have padding around the content wrapper to keep the content from going right to the edge of the container, and by using max width instead of width, we can make the sizing flexible while still maintaining some fixed control over the design and layout. This will help when we start using media queries to make responsive design changes for different screen sizes, which will be covered in chapter seven. But I recommend doing all these lessons in order. We'll get there soon enough.