Project: Adding a header image
- [Instructor] Let's start this project update by taking a look at the header markup for the resume page. We added the content wrapper only around the heading tags to center align the content. This leaves the width of the header element unchanged so we can use it to add the background image. In the CSS file, under the Resume Page section, let's add a new declaration block. We'll use .resume space header as the selector so it's only applied to the header on the resume page. Then we'll add the background property with the URL function value and the file path to the image. I'm using the same image as the homepage, so I'm just going to copy the file path from there. Let's see how this looks in the browser. Save your file, and refresh. So the image has been added, but it isn't quite the look I was going for. The image is displayed behind the text, and not only that, we can't even see much of the image. Looking at the final version, the background image appears before the header content. There is a before pseudo element that can be used to achieve exactly what we need. Let's look at the MDN documentation to see how to use it. In CSS, before it creates a pseudo element, that is the first child of the selected element. This means that we can use this to add an element before the header, which will be the selected element. It is often used to add cosmetic content to an element with the content property. Since we're just adding this background image as a presentational effect, we're still good to go to use this property. We'll also need to use the content property for this to work. It is inline by default, so any pseudo element that's added will be displayed as an inline element, which means we'll need to change it to block or inline block to use all of the box model properties. The MDN docs are useful because there are explanations and examples, so you don't need to memorize everything. And similar to code pin, you can change the values in the demo to experiment with the different examples. Let's go back to our CSS file and update the selector to include the pseudo element. We'll add Before to the end of the header selector. Remember to use two colons with no space. This will create an element before the header to apply the image to. Nothing will show up yet with just this declaration because there's no content yet. The browser will just see an empty box, so let's add the content property. For the value, I'm going to use some placeholder text like hello, just so we can see something in the browser. The value must be contained within single or double quotes. End it with semicolon, save the file, and go back to the browser and refresh. Now I can see my hello has been added before the header text, but I need the element to be bigger to actually see the background image. And right now, it's just defaulting to the height of the content. So let's go back to the editor again and we'll add the display property. We'll set this value to Block, so we can add a height property to it to make it taller than just the hello text. I'll go with 375 pixels. Save the file again, and now let's see how this looks. Now the image has been added and it spans all the way across the page, and it also applied the height value, but we can still only see the top-left part of the image file, so let's change that using background size. Let's add that underneath, since it can't be added to the shorthand syntax without a background position value. We'll set the background size to Cover. Let's see how this update looks. Save the file and refresh the browser. Depending on your image, this may look fine, but the most important parts of my image are in the middle of the file, so I'm going to make one more update. Back in the CSS file, I'm going to use a background position property to tell the browser to find the center of the image with the keyword center. I'll add that to the shorthand background syntax by adding a space, and adding the value of center. Also, now that I've added a background position value, I can include the background size in the shorthand property by adding a slash after center, and then cover. But for this particular shorthand syntax, I generally like to keep the background size separate so I don't have to remember to change it if I decide not to use background position. But it's totally up to you how you want to write it as long as it's valid. Also, I'm sure you don't want to keep the placeholder text in the image area anymore, so let's remove that. We still need to use the content property for the before pseudo element to work, but if you don't actually have any content you want to add, just leave the value blank, but keep the quotes. Let's save the file and check this update for the last exercise of Chapter 3. At this point, I'm pretty happy with the placement of my header image, but depending on what image you chose, you may want to adjust the height of the header or the positioning of the image. We've added a lot of styles, but I'm sure at this point you're ready to start creating some page layout styles so that everything isn't just stacked on top of each other. In the next two chapters, we'll cover a variety of layout techniques using float, position, flex box, and grid.