CSS syntax and terminology
- Learning to code is similar to learning a spoken language. You start by learning the grammar rules. In coding, syntax is like the grammar rules of the coding language, and using proper syntax is how we give instructions to the computer. Let's take a look at the CSS we added to our last project exercise and review the syntax in terminology. This is a declaration block. It may contain one or more style rules enclosed in curly brackets. A selector specifies which HTML element or elements to apply the style to. CSS style rules are called declarations and use property value pairs to provide instructions to the browser on how to style a specific HTML element. The property specifies what is being styled like background. The value defines the specific characteristics such as the color pale turquoise. They are separated by a colon and end with a semicolon to indicate the end of the rule. There are many CSS properties and values, and they all have different effects on the appearance and behavior of HTML elements. We'll go over different properties and values throughout the course. Some CSS styles can be defined using shorthand properties, which set multiple styles in one statement. Longhand properties set values individually. For example, padding is shorthand for padding top, padding right, padding bottom, and padding left. Shorthand is generally more efficient since only one declaration is needed, but longhand properties can be used if you need to define just one characteristic. Comments are used to add notes to your CSS. They don't affect the styling of the webpage and are ignored by browsers, so we can use them to help us read our code better. The syntax starts with a slash and asterisk and ends in the opposite order. Write your comment using text, numbers or any type of characters as long as they are between the asterisks. For example, notes, instructions, or extra information can be left for yourself or for your team. In this example, the comment describes where the styles are applied, the header area, and what color the hex code represents. To debug or experiment without deleting the CSS, you can temporarily hide it by commenting out a line or a whole block. Just add the slash and asterisk before and after the section or line you want to hide. White space in CSS is used in a couple different ways. Sometimes it's required syntax. For example, multiple property values must be separated by a space. Without it, the value will not be valid and the styles will not be applied. Other times it's used to format the code. If we wrote the CSS with only the required white space, the browser would still be able to read it. But writing CSS like this would be difficult for us to read. It's common to write each declaration on a separate line and to indent them to easily see which block they're contained in. Adding spaces between selector names and the curly brackets and between property value pairs can also improve readability. As we go through different CSS concepts, I'll be sure to mention when white space is required in the syntax. This is also something to pay attention to when reading documentation. When it comes to formatting, developers tend to have strong opinions, including myself. There have been countless debates and style guides written about this, such as this one: codeguide.co. Some of these rules may not make sense right now since we've only just started talking about CSS, but you can save this guide for later. As you write more code, you'll develop your own style. My advice is to do what makes sense to you but try to be consistent. And if you're working on a team, I would recommend defining a cohesive style guide together.