The color property and values
- [Instructor] Let's talk about the color property which is used to change an element's text color and decoration which are styles applied to the text like an underline or strikethrough. The color property is used with different color values. There's one type we've seen already, keywords. These are predefined values that represent specific colors including basic themes like red, blue, green and black but there are other keywords that may not immediately come to mind. Such as mediumseagreen or oldlace. So how do we know which keywords are valid? Well we can check the documentation. Here's the full list of the MDN web docs. There are also other reference guides, here's one of my favorites. Colours, with a U, .neilorangepeel.com. It's the same keyword list as the MDN docs but I like that I can view the options by color groups. Plus it lists other types of color values, the RGB, HEX value and functional values that correspond with the keyword. Just note that there are less than 150 keyword values, so for more color options, use one of the other value types instead. One option is an RGB color value expressed with the RGB function. The syntax uses three numbers to represent the red, green and blue channels. Separated by spaces. Each number is arranged from zero to 255. Zero equals black and 255 equals white. To add transparency, an optional fourth value can be added following a slash and uses a number between zero and one or a percentage between zero and 100. In previous specifications, the numbers were separated by commas. Also, to add transparency, an alpha channel was added using an RGBA function. This is referred to as legacy syntax and it's still supported by browsers. So if you've used it in previous projects, you should be fine. But for new projects, use the current space-separated syntax instead. Another type of RGB color value is the hexadecimal value. This value is defined with six characters, using a combination of numbers from zero to nine and letters from A to F. The first two characters represents the red value, the next two represents green and the last two represent blue. The hex value must start with a number sign and is also case insensitive. Hex values can be abbreviated if all the characters are the same, or if the pairs are the same. For example, six 0s are the same as three 0s and F00 is the same as FF0000. An alpha channel can also be added to the hex notation with one or two additional characters. Zero is fully transparent and FF is fully opaque. To find RGB values, you can use software such as Photoshop or Illustrator. There are also various online tools which I will discuss in an upcoming lesson but how do you figure out what value to use for setting the alpha channel if zero is transparent and FF is fully opaque. These numbers use a base-16 hexadecimal number system. 16 different symbols are used to denote the values from zero to 15. Zero to nine equals zero to nine. But 10 to 15 is represented by the letters A through F. So unlike the RGB functional color value which uses a percentage or a base-10 decimal value, setting the alpha channel for hex values also uses this base-16 system. If you're not familiar with the base-16 system, no worries. I have some resources for you. Here's a post with a chart listing all the hexadecimal values for corresponding opacity values from zero to 100%. So no need to do any calculations. But if you do want to learn more about the hexadecimal system and how to do these calculations, here's an in-depth article. These links and all other references I mention are in the links PDF file in the exercise files. There are actually more color value types. We can see the full list here in the MBN docs. I covered the more commonly used options but if you'd like to see what else is available, give this a read.