Type and universal selectors
- [Instructor] In CSS, selectors are used to select specific HTML elements and apply styles to them. Different types of selectors are used to determine which element the style should be applied to. Let's start by taking a look at how to use two basic selectors, type and universal. Type selectors are sometimes called an element selector, and they match to HTML elements by using the element name but without the angled brackets. For example, to apply a style to all the h2 elements on your webpage, use h2 as the selector. The universal selector can be used to select every single element in the whole document. The syntax is represented by a single asterisk. Using the universal selector can impact performance since it applies the styles to all elements on the page which is why it's not used very often. There are some special use cases which we'll discuss in more detail later in the course. Let's practice using selectors with a CodePen exercise. The default layout of the CodePen editor shows three panels at the top of the page, but since we'll only be writing HTML and CSS, I'll minimize the JavaScript panel. To maximize the space, I also like to put the panels on the side. To change the editor view, select the Change View button in the menu bar. The icon looks like a bunch of squares. And the panels can be moved to the left or right. I'll choose left, but you can, of course, choose whichever layout you prefer. Let's start with adding a universal selector which uses the asterisk symbol. Then add the left curly bracket. In CodePen, the right curly bracket will automatically be added. Press Enter to move the cursor between the brackets which also automatically adds the indentation. Then we'll add the color property followed by a colon and any color value. I'll go with purple and end it with a semicolon. In CodePen, the styles are updated automatically. You don't have to refresh the browser. Now we can see in the output panel the color style has been applied to all the elements. Now let's change the color of just the h1 heading. What selector should it be? If you thought h1, you would be correct. This is an example of the type selector. On a new line, type in just h1 followed by the curly brackets and Enter to add your style declaration, we'll use color again. Add the colon and choose another color value. End it with a semicolon. Now the style is only applied to the h1 since that's the only element this selector matches to. If we change it to h2, then the styles will be applied to both h2 headings. Type selectors are often used to apply style to all of the matched elements, but what if you want to be more specific and add a style to only one particular element? There are other selectors for this purpose which we'll discuss in the next lesson.