Class selectors
- [Presenter] When type selectors are too general but you'd need more flexibility than IDs. There's another option. The class selector, which matches to one or more elements based on the class attribute value. Similar to IDs, to use a class, it must first be added to the HTML tag and just like IDs, the value is defined by you. But when used as a CSS selector, it starts with a period. The same class name can be reused throughout the page by adding the same value to any number of elements. The selector only matches to the class name, so it doesn't even have to be the same type of element. You can also use multiple classes with the same element. The order doesn't matter but each class name must be separated by a space and contained within the quotation marks. For example, any element with either the fancy or highlight class name will have the corresponding styles applied to it. If the element contains both class names then both styles will be applied. To specify a style only when both classes are present, the class selectors are combined with no space. This technique can be useful when you want to create styles that can be used independently while also creating specific styles using existing class names. Different selector types can also be combined. Let's go back to the code pen example from the last lesson. In this pen, I've added three class styles in the CSS panel. Let's apply these one by one to the HTML to see how classes are applied. First, add the large text class to the first paragraph. So, we'll add a space class="large-text. Now, we can see the larger font size has been applied only to the first paragraph. Now let's add the button class to the first button. Again, this style is now only applied to the element that the class attribute has been added to but let's say I want the large button to have the button style and the large textile. I can do that by adding both classes to the element. I'll start by adding the button class, then add a space and then I'll add the large text style. Now both styles are applied to the large button. If I wanted to add an additional style just for the large buttons with large text, I can do so by combining both selectors in the CSS to create a new style. I currently have it commented out in the CSS panel. Let's add that style back in. Delete the slash and asterisk around the style, or click on the line of code and use the keyboard shortcut command or control forward slash to remove the comment. Now we can see that the button text is bolded and this is only applied if both classes exist within the same element. Using classes is common in CSS because it allows for flexibility and can be used once or multiple times.