Descendant combinators and selector lists
- [Instructor] When writing HTML, tags are nested inside of other tags, which creates a hierarchy known as the Document Object Model or DOM for short. Elements nested at the first level create a parent-child relationship. Deeper levels create an ancestor-descendant relationship. Elements nested within the same parent are sibling elements. Descendant combinators are used to select nested elements by combining two selectors, one targeting an ancestor element, and the other a descendant element. It must be separated by a space. For example, section, space, p will select only paragraphs inside of a section element. Let's open up a CodePen example to see the different ways we can use a descendant combinator. Let's start by uncommenting the color value in the a selector. Delete the slash and asterisk to add the style back in or use the keyboard shortcut, Command or Control + forward slash. This is a type selector, so it will apply to all the links anywhere in the document. The next selector, section, space, a is a descendant combinator. This style will be applied to any links inside of a section element. We can go more than two levels to create a more specific pattern to match. Section p a will select only links contained within a paragraph contained within a section element. We can also use different types of selectors. Container a is also a descending combinator but it uses a class and type selector. If we change the section tag to article, this style would still apply because it's matching to the class named container. The more selectors you use, the more specific the pattern. To avoid overly specific selectors, it's recommended to limit descendant combinators to two or three levels. Now let's talk about another type of combinator, a selector list. Selectors can be grouped to apply shared styles to more than one selector at once by using selector lists. The syntax looks similar to descendant combinators but each selector must be separated by a comma. Each selector in the grouped list is independent of the other. So when using descendant selectors in a selector list, make sure to declare the full combination. Grouping selectors can make your CSS more efficient because it reduces the number of declarations. It's also easier to update one declaration block. This is a small example, so you're only saving a couple of lines but as your CSS file gets longer and longer, every little bit helps. Learning when to use each type of selector will take time but we'll continue to practice using them as we build out our projects.