The background property
- [Instructor] Now that we have a variety of selector options to choose from, let's prepare for an upcoming project update and talk about the background property. We've already used this style in a few examples to change the background color of an element, but background is actually shorthand for many more background styles. Let's open a code pen example to see how these properties work. The longhand syntax for setting the background color of the element is background-color. Let's add that style in for images. If it's for presentation only, we can use the background property. If it's part of the content, like the project thumbnails, then it should be added to the HTML with the IMG tag. Otherwise, we can use the background-image property. The value is the URL function value. This is where we add the path to the image within the parentheses using the same rules for linking images we discussed in chapter one. If the image file is smaller than the area it's applied to, the image will repeat horizontally and vertically to fit the entire area. To prevent the image from repeating, use the background-repeat property and set it to no-repeat. The background color will be visible where the image does not cover. By default, the background image will align to the top left of its container. Background-position is used to define the position relative to its container. A single value will position the image from the left of the container. Right now, I have it set to 10 pixels, but any length value can be used. The top value will default to 50%, so the item is placed in the middle of the container. Adding a second value will allow you to specify the position from the top. You can also use different length units together. Let's try adding 10%. There are also five keyword values. Instead of numbers, we can use top or bottom. We can add a second value, left or right, or we can use center. To make an image cover the entire area, you can use background-size. First value sets the width, so a value of 100% will stretch the image to fill the container horizontally. A second value will change the height of the image. Setting it to 100% will make the image span the full height to fill the space. but if the space does not have the same aspect ratio as the image, it will appear distorted. Another option is to use the keyword cover. The value will fill the container space, but to maintain the aspect ratio, the part of the image that doesn't fit into the container will be clipped. Also, since cover is meant to fill the space, the background image will not repeat by default, but if you change it to something else like 50%, then it will. Let's put it back to cover. Background-size is not a perfect solution, especially if an important part of the image is not shown. However, it does fill the space, and you can adjust the background-position property to move a specific part of the image within the viewable part of the container. For example, setting it to right will ensure that the right side of the image is always visible. Also, this image appears blurry because I'm using an image file that is smaller than the area, so it's being stretched out to be much larger. In an actual project, we would use the image optimization techniques discussed in chapter one. Now that we've looked at using the longhand syntax, let's go back to the shorthand syntax. When using the shorthand property, order doesn't matter, except when using background-size. It must be declared with a background position value and separated with a forward slash. If no background-position value is being used, this shorthand syntax will not work. To use the shorthand syntax with background-size but without background-position, add the longhand background-size declaration after the shorthand declaration. There are additional background properties and value types that are not necessary for our course project or not as commonly used, but if you'd like to learn more, check out the full documentation on MDN.