Project: Prepping the CSS file
(techno music) - [Instructor] In this project update, we're going to set up the CSS file. Also, you'll need to have your color palette handy. If you'd like to use mine, the values are listed in a text file in the exercise files. I often use CSS comments to add notes that I can reference while I'm building out the website. So, let's add these hex codes to the CSS file instead of using a separate text file. We'll add the comment block to the top of the file. Start with a slash, then asterisk, and add the color palette. Then, close the comment with the asterisk and slash. This will make it easier to copy and paste the values when needed. In addition to notes, I also start projects by adding comments to organize the CSS into related blocks. CSS files usually start with the general styles, which I'll refer to as global styles. For organizational comments, I like to use a line of dashes to create a visual divider between sections. The global styles will include shared CSS styles that use type selectors, such as this body selector we added in the last exercise. For smaller projects like this, I also include class styles that are reused throughout the project. I also like to capitalize major categories such as the global styles or page styles like home and resume. I'll add a footer block too, since there'll be shared styles across both pages. Then, more specific groupings of styles can also be added. For example, the resume page contains various sections that can also be grouped. For these comment blocks, I'll use regular letter casing for the profile, projects, work experience, and education sections and add them in the order that they appear in the HTML. As the project progresses, we'll be adding the corresponding CSS styles into these groupings. Organizing your code with comments can help reduce issues like accidentally adding duplicates and just make it easier to find related styles. The way this is organized is very much my personal preference. Remember, you can add any type of characters within the comment block, so use whatever style works for you. Now that we've prepped the file, let's add our first official global style. Go back to the top of the page, and we'll update the test style we added to the body selector. For the actual project, I'll be using something more subtle: the off-white color from my palette. I'll update the test background color with this value instead and save the file. Let's see how it looks in the browser. It's a subtle change, but we can see more of a difference on the resume page. It makes the thumbnail images stand out a little bit more from the background. I chose to go with a more neutral color since the thumbnails have a variety of colors. You can, of course, choose another color if you'd like. Depending on the content, sometimes the bright color works, and sometimes it's better to choose something subtle. Now, let's make one more change to get the project ready for more CSS updates. We'll be adding specific styles to both the home and resume page. So, let's go back to the editor, and starting with the index.html file, we'll add a class to the body tag. Add a space, class, equals, and within the quotes, I'm going to give it a name and just call it home. Now, we'll be able to use this class to create homepage specific styles. Let's do the same for the resume.html page. And I'll name this one resume. Make sure to save both files, and keep your text editor and browser open for the next lesson, which will be another project exercise.