Project: Adding background styles
(upbeat music) - [Instructor] In this project exercise, we'll be adding the background image to the homepage and some background styles to the footer as well. Although the Resume page also uses a background image, this style will require learning about a few more concepts to add the image only to the top, so we'll just leave this for now. Let's move back to the editor and add some CSS. Since we'll be adding just the background image to the homepage, let's go under the homepage comment block, and start by adding the selector, .home, and the curly brackets. Then we'll add the shorthand background property to apply the image to the body element on the homepage only. Add a colon, and then we'll use the URL function value to add the path to the image. To determine the file path, we need to start with the location of the CSS file. It's currently located within a CSS folder. So the path will actually start with .., which is used to navigate up and out of the current folder, regardless of the folder name. Then add the forward slash. Next we'll add images to navigate into the images folder. Add another forward slash and the image file name. I'll be using the bg-home-office-studio image. End the declaration with the semicolon. Let's save the file and refresh the page in the browser to see the update. I like to check my changes often. That way if something doesn't work as intended, I won't have to hunt through a long list of styles to figure it out. Right now, I can only see a portion of my image, and that's because the size of your image file, screen size, and resolution will determine how much of the image you'll see. If your screen size is larger than the height or width of the image file, it will repeat to fill the page. So let's go back to the editor. Even though my image is more than large enough to fill the page, let's add the no-repeat property just to be safe. Don't forget to add the space between multiple values. Now we'll add background size to fit the image to the dimensions of the viewport, but reminder, we can't add background-size to the shorthand syntax without using background position. So let's just add it underneath and we'll give it a value of cover. Save the file and check the update. Now the width of the image will fit to the width of the viewport. Also, it's flexible to any changes to the size of the viewport. This is the flexibility that we want, but right now, to maintain the aspect ratio of the image, the height automatically resizes and doesn't cover the bottom area anymore, even though we use cover for the background size. But don't worry about this just yet, we'll update this style later when we learn a few more concepts. Adding the background image has added some visual interest, but now the text is hard to read. To fix this, we can add a background color behind the text. I'd also like to add a little opacity to it so we can still see the image through it just a little bit. To do this, we'll add a container element just around the content, then we'll apply the background color to the container. Let's go back to the index.html file. The container needs to be added around just the header and main content area. The footer will be styled separately. I'm going to collapse the main content area just to make it a little easier to wrap this new container div around it. We'll be using the div element since we don't need to add any semantic content. This will be just for adding styles. Let's use the auto complete shortcut again and just type in div Tab. Add the div just before the header tag and take the closing div, and move it just after the closing main tag. This will probably mess up your HTML indentations, so let's take a moment to reformat. I'll highlight the whole block and just Tab it in once. Now, let's add a class to the div. I'll name it content-wrapper, and then save the file. Back in the CSS file, we'll use a descendant selector, .home space .content-wrapper to apply this style only to the content wrapper on the homepage. In the color lesson, we talked about adding opacity with the hex values versus the RGB function value. I personally prefer the RGB function so I can use a percentage or decimal value rather than the 0 to 9, A to F hex calculations. So for the background color, I'll use the shorthand background property again. And for color, I'll be using white. So the RGB value is pretty easy to remember. Zero is black and 255 is white. So I can set three values to 255 to make it white. Remember to add spaces in between each value. For the opacity, I'll add a slash and then set it to 0.9 to add just a little transparency. Most of the time, design tools generate color palettes and hex codes, so if you'd rather use the RGB function as well, here's a handy tool for converting any hex value to RGB on webfx.com. Just add the hex code to get the converted RGB value. This tool is still using the old syntax, so just remove the commas and use spaces instead. I'm going to switch back to the CSS file to add in a couple more styles. While we're here, let's add some background color to the footer as well. Let's scroll down to the footer area and add a new declaration block. We'll use footer as the selector so the style can be applied to both pages. For this background, I'll use a dark gray, the almost black color from my palette. I'll use the background property again, and for the dark color, it's actually six 2s, or I can use the shortcut and add three 2s. If you chose a dark color as well, the text color will also need to be changed to something lighter, so I'm going to use the light gray from my palette with the color property. I'm going to scroll up to the top and just copy this hex value first then go back down and add the color property with this new light gray color. Now let's save the file and go back to the browser. Now the text in the homepage can be read more easily with the background color applied to it. The dark colors for the footer has been applied, but since the list is a block element, it's currently taking up a lot of space on the page. Also, notice that the text link is still blue. This is the default style of links and is different from the rest of the text-based elements, so we'll need to target it more specifically, which we'll do later in the exercise. Right now, this page still needs a lot of work. There are many more styles to add such as resizing and positioning elements, adjusting the content width, and more. But projects are typically built like this, bit by bit. We'll continue to add additional styles as we work our way through different CSS concepts.