Pseudo-classes and pseudo-elements
- [Instructor] So far, we've gone over different ways to select specific elements, but with pseudo-class and pseudo-element selectors we can select a specific state or a specific part of an element. Pseudo-classes target elements in a specific state. For example, the first child element or when the user interacts with it such as hovering over a link. They're added to a selector with a colon and a keyword. Pseudo-elements are used to style a specific part of an element, such as the first letter or the first line of a paragraph. They're also combined with a selector but are added with double colons followed by the keyword. Let's look at an example in CodePen. A common style for online articles is to mimic the typography often seen in magazines by styling the first paragraph or first sentence differently from the rest. Let's start by adding the first class to the first paragraph. Inside the opening tag I'll add the class attribute equals quotes, and the class name first. Now the first paragraph is displayed with the larger font size, but what if we end up adding a new paragraph before this one? It will no longer be the first paragraph. Now the style will no longer be applied, but we could just move the class to the new first paragraph or we can use the first child pseudo class. Let's add a new selector, starting with article. Then we'll add a space, then p, to select the paragraphs within the article tag. Then we'll add the pseudo class, colon, no space, first dash child. This will narrow the selection down to the first paragraph. Add the curly brackets, then a style. I'll use color and set it to red to make a different style from the first class. Now you can add or remove paragraphs and the style will always be applied to whichever is the current first paragraph. But what if I decided to add an H1 tag to include a title? The pseudo class will no longer work. P first child means it has to be the first child of the article element and AP tag. By adding the H1, the first paragraph is now the second child element within article, but there is another pseudo class we can use instead. First of type, let's update the selector, first dash of dash type. with this selector, Now it will look for the first P element rather than the first child element. Now, let's say you want to change just the first letter rather than the whole paragraph. Let's use the first letter pseudo-element to style only the first letter of the paragraph. For pseudo-elements, we need to start with two colons, then first dash letter. Now the style is applied to the first letter in each paragraph, but if we wanted to style just the first letter in the first paragraph, we can do that by combining selectors. Let's put first of type back in, but we'll put it before first letter. So we'll add one colon, first dash of dash type. Now this will apply the style to the first letter of the first paragraph within the article element. Pseudo-classes and pseudo-elements are useful, but they have very specific purposes as we've just seen in the demo. Also, you'll start to see that there are often more than one way to do the same thing. In these examples, using a class would have also worked. To target just the first letter, we could have also wrapped a span element around it and added a class to use the selector. With classes, you just have to remember to move or add them depending on if or how the content changes. Sometimes there are best practices for doing things and sometimes it's just a matter of personal preference. There are quite a few more pseudo-classes and pseudo-elements. To learn more about them, you can find them in the MDN web docs, which is located in the sidebar of the reference guide.