Inheritance and the cascade
- [Instructor] In CSS, styles can be inherited from ancestor elements to the descendant elements, which means styles can be applied to multiple elements with just one line of code. For instance, all page content is contained inside the body tag so it's common to define shared styles using body as the selector for all the descendant elements to inherit. This is more efficient than applying the style directly to each element. Inheritable styles are mainly related to typography, like font, family, or color. Non-inheritable styles are usually related to positioning elements or sizing, like width or height. But how do you know exactly which properties are inheritable or not inheritable? Well, you can check the CSS documentation. To find information about a specific property, I usually just do a web search with the keywords. For example, if I'm searching for the color property, I'll add that to my search plus the language, in this case, it's CSS, and as seen many times throughout this course, I tend to check the MDN Docs first, so I'll also include that in my search. Here's the MDN Docs as my first search result. Let's open the page. Here are some explanations and examples of the syntax. If you scroll down to formal definition, we'll see a field that says inherited, yes. Now we know this property is inheritable. You don't need to memorize all these details about each property. Reading documentation and tutorials are a common part of doing web development. Another important concept to learn about is the cascade in cascading style sheets, which refers to how style rules are applied based on the source order. The browser reads style sheets from top to bottom. If there are conflicting rules applied to the same element, the declaration that was loaded last will take precedence whether they're in the same or separate declaration blocks. As your CSS files get larger, it's easy to forget a certain style has already been used and accidentally added again, so this is actually a common error. To reduce these types of issues try organizing your CSS into related blocks. This is what we'll be doing in our course project.