Specificity
- [Instructor] We talked about the cascade, which determines that the last style rule takes precedence when styles conflict. However, when different types of selectors are used, source order is overridden by a concept called specificity. Specificity refers to the rules which determine which CSS style takes precedence when styles conflict but it's based on the type and number of selectors used. With some having more weight than others, the higher the specificity, the more priorities a selector has when applying styles to an element. Here's how the selectors are weighted from highest to lowest specificity, ID, class, type, then universal. These values are calculated based on the selector type and the number of each type of selector used. Here's how the specificity calculations work. It's broken down into a three category count. The number of ID selectors, the number of class selectors, and the number of type selectors. The numbers for each count are then concatenated which means that they're joined together, not added. This will give us the final specificity value. In this example, this selector contains no IDs, one class, and one type selector for a concatenated value of zero, one, one. The higher the value, the higher the specificity. So in this example, id p has the highest specificity because there's one ID and one type selector resulting in a value of one, zero, one. Even though a selector like ul, li, a has three selectors, they're all type selectors. So the final concatenated value is only zero, zero, three. The universal selector isn't included in this count so their value is zero, zero, zero. Don't worry if these calculations seem overwhelming. It's good to have an understanding of how this works but you don't need to know the exact selector specificity value to write CSS effectively. It just takes some time to practice. Inheritance, cascade, and specificity all control health styles are applied to HTML and each concept applies these rules differently. So let's do a recap. When an inheritable property is added to an element, the descendant elements will inherit the style as well. Because of the cascade rule, the source order also matters. The declaration that is loaded last will take precedence. Unless you use a more specific selector. It will override both the inherited styles and the cascade rule. There is one exception to all these rules. The important flag. This keyword overrides all these rules to become the most specific rule, regardless of the cascade, inheritance, or specificity. The syntax starts with an exclamation mark in the keyword important. It's added to the end of the style declaration just before the semicolon. The only way to override an important style is to use a more specific selector with another important flag, so this can get pretty messy. In rare cases, it may be necessary to use important such as when working with a third party framework. That doesn't allow access to the CSS file. However, this should only be used as a last resort. Understanding how to use important can be helpful if you encounter it. But it's generally considered bad practice since it doesn't follow any rules. In most cases, following the rules of the cascade, specificity, and organization will prevent conflicts between styles.