Project: Styling links
(light upbeat music) - [Instructor] In this project update, we'll be updating various link styles starting with the default blue text link. This can be added under the global section. Since these styles are general styles, that will apply to all the links on the page. I'll also add a small comment just to mark this section as link styles. Let's use the A selector to change the link color. Add the curly brackets, and then we'll use the color property and a value. I'll use the green hex code from my palette. Next, let's add a dynamic effect to our links using the hover pseudo class. This changes the style when the user hovers over the link with their mouse. We'll need to add another declaration block for this style. Remember, pseudo classes are keywords added to a selector and since we want this to be a hover effect on the link, we'll start with a, then add a colon, followed by hover with no spaces. We'll add the curly brackets again and also use the color property again. This time I'm going to use the sandy beige color and end the declaration with a semicolon. I also want to remove the default underline. I can do that with a property called text decoration. Setting it to a value of none will remove the underline. Let's save the file and refresh the browser to see the update. For links, the color property changes the text color and the underline. On hover, we set the color to change and remove the underline. All the links in the page now have this style, but in the footer, the green is a little dark for this background. For more contrast, let's use a lighter color instead, but just for the footer links. Back in the CSS file, let's go down to the footer section. We'll use footer space A as the selector, because I only want this to apply to the links in the footer. I'll just reverse the colors for the footer links, I'll use beige for the initial state. Then for the hover state, I'll use the green. I'll add another selector for just footer, a colon hover, curly brackets, color property, and I'll grab the green hex code from here and add it to my footer hover. Let's save the file and go back to the browser. Refresh it to see the change. Now we can see that the beige color has been applied to the footer and on hover, it's green. Referring back to the final version of the resume page, the link styles in the project section are styled to look like buttons, so we'll need to create a button style. First, let's go back to the editor and look at the current HTML markup. Let's scroll down to the project section. I had mine collapse, so I'm going to click on this arrow to open it. Right now I have a link in the intro paragraph and it's possible I may want to add links to the project descriptions at some point but I don't want these links to be styled as buttons so let's create a class that can be added directly to the link itself, so we can choose which links are meant to be styled as buttons. I'll use an abbreviation and name the class BTN and add it only to the links following the project description. Copy this class and add it to the remaining links. Now let's save this file and go over to the CSS file. I'm going to add the button styles to the global area as well with the other link styles, since it will be a reusable class that can be used somewhere else. We'll add the new declaration block with .btn as our selector followed by the curly brackets and then we'll use background to set the color. I'm going to use my green hex value for the buttons. Right now the link text is also set to green, so we'll definitely need to change that. Let's use the color property to change the text color for the buttons. I'll use the off-white color. Next, we'll use text decoration again set to none to remove the default underline. Now let's save all the files and check the changes in the browser. So this is a start. We're not quite all the way there with the button styles just yet, but we can leave this as is for now. Make sure to add the button class to the remainder of the links in your project section. In the next chapter, we'll be talking all about the CSS box model, which will help us understand how elements are displayed. Then we can come back to our projects and fix up all these spacing and sizing styles.