What is site reliability engineering?
- The fifth and last practice area of DevOps is site reliability engineering. - Engineering is the application of theoretical principles to solve real world problems, and in engineering, reliability describes the ability of a system to perform its intended function correctly and consistently when it's expected to. - And in IT this includes availability, performance, security, and all the other factors that allow your service to actually deliver its capability to users. - SRE isn't just for websites, but the term got coined at Google for engineers focused on the reliability of their website and the term stuck. - Yeah, Google Engineers published a book called Site Reliability Engineering that's also available online for free that you can use to learn more about their perspective on it. We've actually linked to it in the course handout. - [Instructor 1] You can think of SRE as the actual operations part of DevOps. Infrastructure as code lets us use software to define our system. Continuous integration lets us build and deploy our system and our applications, but then once you have a production service, you need to monitor it, manage it, and fix things when they go wrong. - [Instructor 2] Yeah, many people define site reliability engineering as a discipline of using a software engineering approach to automate all these operational processes, - [Instructor 1] But that's an incomplete view. To create effective reliability, you need to engineer your systems and applications for reliability from the start. You can't just bolt on reliability once something goes live. - [Instructor 2] Yeah, Patrick Debois identified four key areas of DevOps. Extending delivery to production, extending feedback from operations to dev, embedding dev into operations, and embedding ops into dev. - We're going to use this to illustrate a holistic approach to reliability engineering, but we're going to simplify it into building reliability and operational feedback. - [Instructor 2] In building for reliability, we examine how you construct your system to be maximally resilient and maintainable in the first place. - And then in operational feedback, we'll talk about observability and incident response practices and how to feed back that information from production operations to improve the service. When you bring together both practices, you have the DevOps take on site reliability engineering. - Yeah, and a solid SRE practice will improve key metrics that have been shown to drive business outcomes. - It'll improve your change failure rate, which is how many production changes cause issues, through reliability testing and deployment automation. - It will also improve your time to restore service, which is how long it takes to fix a production problem when it happens through good problem detection and operational automation and discipline. - And it'll improve your ability to meet uptime and performance goals through observability and resilience. - Okay. Let's get to it.