Building for reliability: Theory
- When you start talking about operations, people immediately envision the activities that happen in production. But most of your success in production is based on decisions you make at design time and your software architecture. Developers, let's talk about your role in creating apps that can be reliable. That's a huge topic, so I'll hit three key resources that address how you design your applications for a real systems environment to make your services work great, even in adverse conditions. Software engineering has developed standard design patterns over time, like those in the popular "Gang of Four Design Patterns" book, a popular comp sci book that explains the theory of object-oriented design, but also offers standard patterns to use instead of having to design everything from first principles every time. The equivalent design patterns book that addresses stability is Michael Nygard's "Release It!" It takes an application-first approach to understanding the causes of production failures, the patterns they take, and techniques to make applications resistant to those kinds of failures. One point the book makes is that integration points are the number one cause of issues in an architecture, and what's known as the cascading failure of a service based on an issue with an integration point is the number one threat to stability in a layered architecture. For example, if a database layer goes down or becomes slow, an application server tier fronting it can exhaust database connection pools and choke out the app server layer. In modern architectures, especially in microservice architectures, apps end up having many integration points so the likelihood of one of them going bad is very high. A stability pattern that can prevent cascading outages is called the Circuit Breaker, which watches for failures or slowness when calling an integration point. And if it detects an unusual amount of failures, it stops making those calls instead of continuing to bombard a failing system. Combined with timeouts, this technique can prevent the spread of an outage. Once patterns like this are identified, you can make platform-level fixes for them. Libraries like Resilience4j have been developed to provide these stability patterns in an easily consumable format for developers. A good manifesto for how to produce service-ready software is called the twelve-factor app, described at 12factor.net. For example, the third factor, Config, states that runtime configuration that varies by deployment should be separated out from the app code, stored in environment variables, and be fully independent of each other and not bundled into environment groupings. This avoids fragility and improves portability. This site is definitely worth studying. A good way to get a bite-sized introduction to architectural terms is by following Martin Fowler. He's a well-known developer who succinctly describes everything from page objects to serverless to bimodal IT. He has a lot of great thoughts on DevOps related topics from the perspective of a highly experienced software engineer. That may seem like a lot of theory to start out with, but that's what design is. Thoughtful planning of how your applications and the systems around it work. Take a minute to schedule some focus time on your calendar to look more deeply into these patterns and consider which may have value in your own particular technical ecosystem today based on the kinds of failures that you see in production.