Operational feedback: Incident response and retrospectives
- Remember how we said that all of our systems are sociotechnical systems and humans are a part of their resilient operation? - Yeah, well you can do all the other stuff, right. You can have great design and development and testing and great monitoring, but things are still going to break. - Since this is absolutely no surprise. Part of the job is to get really good at responding to and remediating problems in your production system, which we affectionately refer to as incidents. - Incident response is an activity that needs to be practiced. It's the place where in-depth system knowledge and a cool head make all the difference. - There are three general activities you want to be good at for incident response, troubleshooting, understanding the system enough to be able to diagnose and remediate the problem. Automation having tooling already created to speed up and make safe information gathering and re remediation activities and communication. Incident response often requires a team of specialists and you have business stakeholders and end users that need to know what's going on as well. - And then there is one process to bring them all and in the darkness bind them. That's your incident management precious, I mean your incident management process. - James and I saw a great presentation in the early days of DevOps called incident command for IT. What we can learn from the fire department. For real world emergencies, there's a process called the incident command system used to handle large, complex emergencies with multiple agencies responding. It was started in 1968 to coordinate response to Northern California wildfires, and now is even recommended by the United Nations as an international standard. - IT incident management processes inherit a lot from ICS thinking through and defining how incidents are detected and reported and how participants coordinate their activity is key to fixing issues fast and not just making more chaos. - There's no one right way. While there are some general best practices, I've created a lot of IM processes and they're very custom to the organization, team and product at hand. - Okay, take a minute to go to the course notebook and jot down, do you know how these activities happen in your organization when there is an incident, what have you seen Work well or poorly in a crisis? - But of course we don't just fix the problem and then go on with our lives. Have we learned nothing from the three ways of DevOps? - That's right Earnest, failures are an opportunity to learn. This is where postmortems or incident retrospectives come in. This is a formalized process used to analyze an incident and learn from it. - Real talk moment. Organizations have performed so-called root cause analyses for decades. These are usually a thinly veiled attempt to find somebody to blame for an outage. But if someone making a mistake can cause a major outage, your system itself is terrible and not resilient and it needs to improve. Everyone makes mistakes. As an engineer, your job is to make the system work anyway. - Okay, yeah, that's right. So how do you perform effective postmortems that can allow you to learn and improve? Well, the first step is to realize that there is no single root cause. Okay? Sure. Some change activity probably initiated the outage, but there are usually deficiencies at many levels like testing, monitoring, process that allowed that change to turn into an incident. You need to consider all of them. - Secondly, you have to get away from a mindset of assigning blame. People took actions because they thought they were the right thing to do. You have to put aside common cognitive biases and examine the system from the practitioner's point of view to understand how things go wrong so you could safeguard against them. - Okay, and thirdly, communication around outages should be transparent, both while they're in progress and with stakeholders and end users afterwards. People know when they're being stonewalled or lied to and they don't like it. So building trust via transparency builds goodwill. - Those are the concepts of incident response and postmortems. I have full courses on each here in the library if you want to dig into them some more. - Those and other places to go to learn more are, as always, in the course handout in the exercise files.