Discovery
- A key step in working with a REST API is discovery, figuring out what resources and methods are available and what you can do with them. A good REST API has extensive standalone documentation, providing all this information in a human-readable format. But even if no documentation is present, the REST API will describe itself, thanks to the Hypermedia As The Engine Of Application State constraint. Using the get and options verbs, we can walk our way through the response of any REST API, to find its resources and methods. For a simple REST API, the map might be a single level of resource URIs with get methods. For a more complex REST API, like the WordPress REST API, there may be a complex tree of resources, each with their own methods that are documented within the response. If I run an options request to the posts resource, which gives us access to the collection of all posts in a WordPress site, you'll see what I mean. Here, we get a full breakdown of every available method and resource. If I run an options request to the posts resource which gives us access to the collection of all posts within a WordPress site, you'll see what I mean. Here, we get a full breakdown of every available resource and method. Off the top, you'll see the posts resource has two core methods: get, which returns to us the most recent posts, and post, which we're going to use to create new posts. Under each of these methods, we then have further arguments defined. Scrolling down, you'll see here, for example, we have the per_page argument we can pass along with our request, that allows us to control how many pages we want returned. The default is set to 10. The description tells me, this is the setting for the maximum number of items to be returned in the results set, and the type of data we want to pass along is an integer. Scrolling down, you'll see, for each of our arguments, we have required states, we have descriptions, we have types, and if there are default settings, we also have those defaults defined. That means, if you came to this REST API knowing nothing about it, the response from this options request would give you all the information you needed to send advanced requests and get the information you wanted, directly from that REST API. This discovery can be done by us humans, or it can be left to a computer to figure out. In most cases, an application developer will use discovery along side experimentation, to find the resources and methods that help them accomplish their task in the most efficient manner, unless there is documentation available providing the best practice scenarios. Bottom line is, if you encounter a REST API and you don't have documentation for it, you can still figure out how it works by simply asking it.