Methods (Verbs)
- A REST resource enables access to data, but doesn't in itself do anything with that data. To use a REST resource, we have to pass along instructions about what action we want to perform. This is done using HTTP methods, also called verbs. Anytime you use a web browser, you or rather the browser use HTTP methods to tell the server at the other end of the URL what type of request is being sent. By far the most common of these methods is Get which literally means get what's at the end of this address and send it to me. Anytime you visit a webpage or follow a link or click reload or forward or back or any other standard interaction in a browser, you are sending a get request over HTTP. The same goes for REST APIs. If you want to retrieve the data of a resource, you send a Get request. This request will either return a 200 OK HTTP status along with the requested data or a 404 Not Found HTTP status if there's nothing at the other end of the resource or the resource is invalid. Yes, that is the same 404 Not Found error you get in your browser when you follow a broken link because the entire web is at its very nature a giant RESTful application. But I digress. Get is used to get data from a resource. To send data from the client to the server, we have three different methods to perform different types of actions. Post, Put, and Patch. Post is the most common of these methods and it's also the one used in regular non-REST scenarios like when you submit a form on a webpage. Post is used to create new resources and often subordinate resources of resource collections. If for example you have a collection of products and you want to add a new product, you send a post request along with the data for the new product in JSON format, and the REST API creates a new resource under the product's resource and gives it a new ID and resource URI. A successful post request returns a 201 Created HTTP status along with a link to the new resource ID in the response header. If you don't have authorization to perform this action, you'll get a 401 Unauthorized status, and if the resource already exists, the REST API returns a 409 Conflict HTTP status. And if the request is sent to a resource that doesn't exist for some reason, a 404 Not Found HTTP status is returned. Put is used to update data at an existing resource by replacing all of its contents with the contents of the new request. Unlike posts which just contains the contents, a put request contains the ID of the resource and the new content to be added to that resource. If the resource already exists, the existing content is replaced with the contents of the Put request. If no resource exists, the REST server may allow a new resource to be created with the user defined ID. A Put request sent to the singleton resource will return a 200 OK status on success, a 204 No Content status when no content is present at the server, or a 404 Not Found status if the ID is not found. If a Put request is sent to a collection resource, a 405 Method Not Allowed status is returned since Put updates an existing singleton resource. Patch is used to modify an existing resource. Where Put updates the resource by replacing content, Patch can carry along instructions on how to modify the existing resource without necessarily replacing everything. Patch returns the same status as Put. Delete does exactly what it sounds like. It deletes the specified resource. Delete can only be used with singleton resources. If you try to delete a collection resource, you'll get a 405 Method Not Allowed status because you should not be able to delete everything at once. There are two more methods you are likely to use from time to time. They are Options which returns a description of the communication options for the target resource and Head which returns just the head section of that response.