Challenge intro: Create a template literal
(light upbeat music) - [Instructor] Template literals are both useful and in heavy use across JavaScript applications, so in this challenge, you'll create a new template literal to output information from an object as a String. Your starting code contains a constructor for the Camera object, capturing information about cameras, and a function, cameraAge, to calculate the age of the camera based on the information in one of the Camera objects. The test code has a constant, myCamera, using the Camera object constructor to create a new object. Your task in this challenge is to add a template literal to the cameraStory constant matching this formatting, populated with the data from the myCamera object. These instructions may make more sense when you see them in context. In the answer code for this challenge, you'll find the object constructor, Camera, that receives all the information about the camera. There's a function called getCurrentYear which gets the current year. And then, you have the cameraAge function that grabs the current year and subtracts the year defined inside the Camera model. This gives you the age of the camera. Then, down here, is where you're going to do your work. Inside the constant cameraStory, you'll set up a new template literal with the text that's displayed above here. So, my camera is a brand, model, made in year, making it age years old, et cetera, et cetera. So, I suggest you start by grabbing this line of text here and pasting it in, and then placing in the information from the object created with the object literal. And just for reference, the camera defined down here in the test code, you can test it with the information here or you can slot in your own information in these fields. The test will still work regardless. Good luck.


Solution: Create a template literal
(quick music) - [Instructor] To solve this challenge, we'll use template literals to pull information from the new camera object created down here in the test code and then populate it inside this text string here. So the first thing I'll do is try to just pull out one of these pieces of information in my text. If we go up and look at the camera object that will be created, you can see it has different properties, brand, model, year, format, et cetera. And the camera itself sits in this constant my camera. So that means if I go into the backtick here and type in dollar sign, curly brackets, and then say my camera. So that's the object we create down here. And then brand, which is one of the properties, and click test code, I should see an output. Well, the test fails, but I should see the output down here and it is the correct word. So that means we are pulling information from down here up into the code and out into the output. All right, now I need to create the actual output I want. So I'll go up here and copy this line of text in in its entirety and then go down into my backticks and paste it in. And then I'll just replace all of these brackets with what I actually want. So here I'll say myCamera.brand and end curly brace, and then just do the same thing. Actually, I'll copy this to make it quicker. So I'll say, so is that is year of value? Let's see, year, format, lens, film type, okay, so hmm-mm and curly brace and then age, right. So let's just leave age for a second. Format is the same and lens is the same. And film type I believe is the same. Let's just check one more time. So I'll go up here say film type with a capitalized T, film type, and then I can test my code again. So now I have my camera plus one as a made in 1963, making it age years old. Okay, so I need that age component. So remember here we have camera age as a function and it grabs the year. So over here in the age section, I'll type in my camera. And then because this is a template literal I can call in a function and pass the year in. So the year is here. So that means I can say camera H, year. So myCamera.camera H year, actually, no, that's wrong. I'll say camera H year, and then myCamera. year. That way we're passing the right information and curly brace and test my code again. And now we have the string, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. So what's wrong here? Oh, model. I need model, too. So let's take that, copy and paste. And then same model, model and space between. Test my code again and the test passed. Now the string matches exactly. So that's the solution. Write out a standard template literal, and remember you can call in property values and you can also use functions on those property values within your template literals.