Tools for working with JavaScript
- [Instructor] To work effectively with JavaScript, you need a couple of tools on hand on your computer. First of all, you need a modern browser and ideally you want to install all the browsers that are available for your operating system, but you should pick one as your primary browser. Throughout this course, I'll be using Chrome. You can also use Firefox or Edge. They will pretty much work the same way. Second, you need a code editor. Again, here, you can choose whatever tool fits, your particular work environment. The industry standard is quickly becoming VS Code. It's free and you can download it off the web, but you can also use any other code editor. The key here is to find a code editor that will highlight your code as you work with it. For efficiency and for everything to work properly, the code editor needs some form of live server environment. So this essentially is an application that sits on your code editor that spins up a live web server on your computer so that the files you work on a computer, behave as if they're sitting on a proper web server. This is essential for JavaScript to work correctly and for your sites to be able to interact with JavaScript the way your computer on your browser wants to do if the site is on the web. Finally, you need a browser console. All the modern browsers have a browser console, but how to get to it varies a little bit. I'll show you all of this in the browser so you can see how it all fits together. First off, like I said, you need the browser. So here we have Chrome and Chrome has all the tools inside the browser that we need to work with in the browser. In addition, you need a code editor. If you don't already have one, I suggest you go download Visual Studio Code. You can get it for free for any operating systems. You can have it on Windows or Mac OS or Linux or whatever else you want. Once you've installed Visual Studio Code or your preferred code editor, also make sure you have a live server extension to the code editor. In Visual Studio Code, you should just use this one called Live Server. If you go to Visual Studio Code and click on this button over here, the one with the blocks, you can install new extensions. You just go search for Live Server. You find this extension here and you install it. Once Live Server is installed, you'll see down here on the blue bar on the bottom, you have this Go Live button. And if you open the exercise files folder that has all the different folders for all the different movies and just click Go Live, the browser will automatically open on the entire exercise files projects. So here, you can get access to every single movie and every single set of exercise files directly from within the browser as if all of this code was sitting somewhere on the web. So it'll work properly in your browser. You can see it. If we open 0105, for instance, here's functioning code in the browser. And then we come to that last part, the console. If you go and Chrome or Firefox and you just right click anywhere on the screen and click Inspect, you'll open the code inspector. So here you can inspect the code and see what's happening. What we care about is the console and the console you can get to it either by clicking the console option here or by hitting the Escape button on your keyboard, it'll open the console or close the console. And from this console, you can directly interact with the JavaScript on the page. We'll cover all of that in more detail later. So for now, make sure you have a modern browser, a code editor, a live server environment, and then you know how to gain access to the browser console in your browser.