Solution: Create a new object type
(upbeat music) - [Instructor] To solve this challenge, we need to create a new object constructor and if we look down in the test code, we already have an indication of what this object constructor's going to look like because we're calling in a new book from the book object constructor and then we're calling in these four properties. So to start off, I'm going to start here and say create a new function, then call it book with a capitalized B to say this is an object constructor and then set up my parameters here and they will be title, for the book title, see down here, book title, then comma, author, comma ISBN and finally, publication year. Now you'll notice that names used down here do not match the ones up here, that's because we're working inside the object constructor now and I can give it whatever names I want. So I want to be very clear about what these things are. So, title, author, ISBN and publication year is very clear. All right, now because we're working inside a constructor, I will use the this keyword to refer to the current object and then apply this title and set it equal to title and then this author, set it equal to author and so on. So this dot, that refers to the current object being constructed. The title for the object being constructed will be what we pass in through the title property here. So title and this author, will set equal to author, this ISBN, equal to ISBN, semicolon and finally, this publication year, equal publication year. So really all we're doing is repeating the information already in the attributes up here, down in the properties. You don't have to have a match like this but it makes it easier to see exactly what's going on. So now when I run test my code, what will happen is we'll call a new book and populates the new book with the information set in book title, which is up here, "Alice's Adventures in Wonderland," book author, which is Lewis Carroll, then book ISBN, which is this value down here and finally pub year, which is 1865, and that will then be put into the new object. So let's click test my code and see what happens in the console. Here it says test passed, title matches, author matches, ISBN matches and publication year matches. So all four test passed and bravo, this is the correct answer. And then down here you get the new book object. Now this is the object that was generated from the information. So now you can go and change it. So you could say something like "The Adventures of Sherlock Holmes" and this was written by Sir Arthur Conan Doyle. Now I don't know the publication here and ISBN number so I'm just going to leave those and click test my code, see what happens. It says test still passed because we're pulling new information and you can see down here that the book object has changed to display the new information. That's it. That's a solution for this challenge.