Destructuring arrays
- [Instructor] Before we start embarking on our state management journey with React, it's going to be useful to understand some syntax you'll be facing when working on these projects. So we've already talked about destructuring in the context of the header here. We have the props object that we're going to use object destructuring and dig out each key, name, and year from that object. But what happens if we're dealing with an array? If I go over here to main.jsx, this is a good spot to just play around with this. I'm going to create an array of animals. We'll say giraffe, zebra, and bear. Now, if I want to access these values, I can't access them by key, because our items don't have a key. Instead, I access them by position. So I could say console.log animals 0, and this will grab that first item. So let's make sure that that's true. We're going to get into the 04_01c/react-project. We're going to run npm run dev, and then over here in our browser console, we should see the first item, giraffe. Now due to array destructuring, that's part of the ecma script spec, the JavaScript spec, we can actually handle this slightly differently. So I could say here on line five, I'll open and close a set of square brackets, and if I wanted to access the first item, I'll create a variable name for it. So I'll say firstAnimal. We're going to replace this firstAnimal. And now back to our browser, we should see giraffe. So all of these are accessed by position. So if we console logged third, for example, that's going to give me bear. It's also possible to skip over these items by using just a comma. So comma, comma third would still return bear. Nice. So this is helping me with array destructuring. I open and close a set of square brackets, and then I can create a variable name that's going to stand in for any one of these values. This is going to be super important in the next video.