Toggling state with a button
- [Instructor] Right now, our app component is being rendered and when I click on the close restaurant button, that's going to update the state with the new state that I pass into the set status function. But this is kind of a one time thing where we can only click the button once and then any other time I try to click it, we don't see anything happening. So let's make a change to this so that we get the full experience. What we can do is repeat a button if we'd like to. Create a button that's going to set the state to open and we'll set the button text to read open restaurant. Nice, so back to our browser. The restaurant is currently open, that's the initial state as soon as I render. I then can click on close restaurant, open restaurant and have that happen back and forth when I click on each one of those buttons. Now let's take this a step further and actually replace this button. We're going to try to make all of the same stuff happen, but we'll only use one button. We'll set the initial state to true because our initial state was open before, then we're going to do this. So we'll say if the status exists. So if status is true, we want to return open, otherwise we want to return closed. When I go back, we refresh and we see that button isn't working at all because I need to change the value that's going to be passed in here to set status, check it out. We'll say call set status with whatever the opposite of status is. Then I can get fancy with my button, use another JSX expression to say, all right, whenever the status is true, we want to close the restaurant, otherwise we want to open it. So let's make sure I did that right. We'll hit refresh. The restaurant is currently open, that does match our initial state. I can then click on close restaurant. The restaurant is currently closed. Open restaurant, the restaurant is currently open, nice. So we've created this little Boolean toggle here where our initial state is true. We call set status whenever we want to make that change, and we're going to send into this function, whatever the opposite of status is so that we can reset that state.