Google Search 101
- [Instructor] Google is by far the most used and most advanced general search engine available on the web and for our purposes, it's a good baseline tool for throwing out a wide net and capturing the information we're looking for. Basic Google searches are straightforward. Type in something to search for. Say, how to internationalize dates in JavaScript, and you'll get some highly relevant search results. The problem is sometimes the answers are not as immediately obvious even for Google. Consider this example. Should I use Autoprefixer? I get a lot of results to this query, but as you can see, these results are not really answering the question. And some of the top ones are really old. This very top hit here is from 2013. And though it's from an authoritative source, CSS tricks, it's so old, it's probably out of date and is definitely not going to answer the question I'm asking, which is, should I use Autoprefixer today? To get the answers we want from Google, it's useful to know how to use the advanced features built into the search engine. So let's break those down. First, if you need an exact match, always wrap your statement in quotes. This is especially useful if you're looking for code examples or you're trying to resolve an error. Let's say your code environment outputs this very helpful error, error object object. How do you find an answer to this query? Well, wrapping the air in quotes returns only exact matches for the statements. We can try that. Now we get a more refined query result, but it's still not really giving us what we need. So in this case, it's a good idea to add in some relevant information about what environment this error came from. In this case, Gatsby. So I'll just append that to the end, outside of the quotation. Now we're telling Google look for error object object, and anything that's related to Gatsby in that process. And in response, we get a bunch of error messages that have been output by Gatsby, and we're able to find information we're looking for, or at least closely related information to the error we're looking for. This brings us to another issue. If you have a search term that may result in a lot of irrelevant information, like in the case of most JavaScript library names, you can exclude content using a minus symbol. A practical example of this is anytime you're looking for information about Gatsby, you have a tendency of getting it mixed in with the book or the movie, "The Great Gatsby." So let's say for example, I'm looking for an author plugin for Gatsby JS. If I search for author and Gatsby, I guess F. Scott Fitzgerald, because he is the author of "The Great Gatsby" and this book is extremely famous. So I need some way of filtering out any result that has to do with F. Scott Fitzgerald. I can do that by simply adding minus and Fitzgerald at the end of my search. Now every entry in my search result does not mention Fitzgerald and as a result, I get information about Gatsby JS instead, which is what I want. If you're looking for general information and you know an authoritative source that probably has information that you're looking for, it's always a good idea to add that source to your search query. So for example, if you're looking for information about JavaScript date, it might be good to add MDN at the end of your search, because they're saying this should probably be something that MDN has answered for me. This doesn't necessarily mean you'll only get results from MDN, but there's a high chance that the MDN results will bubble to the top of your search query and it will be able to go directly to that source. Now if you know which authoritative source you want to search in, you can also specify the sites by declaring site: and then the URL to the site. So if I want to do a search inside MDN, I need to target the URL, which is developer.mozilla.org. So I say site:developer.mozilla.org. Now I've turned Google into a search engine that only searches content from within developer.mozilla.org and nothing else. So it's essentially a site-wide search inside just one specified site, which can be really useful if you know where the information is going to sit. If you want to find something similar to or mentioning a specific technology without getting results about that technology itself, you can also use the related keyword. So for example, if I want information about things that are related to React JS, but I don't want React JS itself, like I want to look at alternatives to React JS, I'll say related:reactjs.org. As you can see the result here does not contain React JS.org itself but it has a ton of other information related to it in some way. So it's basically saying similar to but not the same as whatever URL you enter in. Finally, you can use logical operators when you do searches. For example, you can use the or operator which returns A or B or both. You also have intitle, allintitle, intext, allintext, inurl and allinurl, which give you more granular control over what the search term is and where you are going to search for those things. In my daily practice, the search tricks I use the most are, first, adding the site or technology to the end of a search to narrow it down, typically MDN or similar. Second, adding entire error messages inside quotes to find a specific hit. Third, if that doesn't work, replace some of the quoted error with an asterisks to indicate wildcards. This is especially useful in any error message that includes a file location or file name that is unique to my project, because then you can still search for the error without that specific file in question. And finally type out for both search strings anytime you're looking for something specific, like how to internationalize dates in JavaScript, because the more complex your search is, the more likely is it that you'll find a direct hit to what you're searching for.