Filter by publishing date
- [Instructor] There's a lot of content on the web and a lot of that content is old, and by old, I don't just mean literally five or 10 or 15 years old, I also mean old in the context of technologies that evolve at a very rapid pace. When searching the web for information about web technologies, it's necessary to pay attention to when the information you find was published, because in many cases, an article that's just two years old may already be severely out of date. The quickest and most straightforward way of doing this is by filtering your search results based on publishing dates. This is especially important when you're looking for current best practices or recent updates to popular technologies because search engines surface popular and frequently visited resources first, and in popular technologies, it can take a long time for new articles to bubble to the surface. So even though articles exist, you may not see them in your searches because there are other older articles that are more popular and more visited. Say, you're looking to build a date component in React. A search brings up a lot of results, but you'll notice these articles are all a couple of years old, 2019, 2018, 2019, 2019. Now these might be good resources, but the fact that the top hits are all a couple of years old gives me pause. I mean, we're still using React, we didn't stop developing React in 2019, so why am I only getting older results here? To refine my search and make sure I'm getting the latest information on this query, I'll go to tools and change the date range from any time to past year. This gives me a very different list of results. The top results are now videos that were recorded in the past year, demonstrating how to build this type of component and when I scroll down, I also find an actual component that was updated just a month ago that probably does exactly what I want to. So, refining the date of the search brings me directly to an answer that might solve my problem without me having to do any work. This refining the search based on the publishing date of the results is something I do a lot when researching newer features. Restricting the search to the past year or even a shorter range ensures that I get the latest information. Then if I don't find a credible source or don't find what I'm looking for, I'll extend the range to look back into older content. This insures I don't end up using older outdated practices when new ones exist. Now, if for some reason you are working with older technologies, that same feature, it can also be used to set a custom range. So if you need to find information that was published a few years ago, you can limit your search to a different time period, and almost go back into a time machine. I can go back to tools and set instead of past year, custom range, and here I can, for example, save from 2017 to 2019. Run the same search, and then I'll only get results that were published in that short time range and it also means I'm not getting results that were published in 2020 or 2021. This principle of checking the dates of what you find is very important and is applied to anything you find on the web. It also applies to things that are not searched, like for instance, forums and other types of information sources. For example, if you do a search in stack overflow, there's a good chance you'll find answers that are really old, that appear at the very top of stack overflow search. Let me show you an example of this. If you go to stack overflow and search for grid gap, one of the top results has what appears to be a correct answer, but the answer was published in 2017. I'll pay close attention to when the question is asked and when the top answer was provided can help you avoid getting what was once a right answer, but has since become the wrong answer is as is the case here. While this code technically works, it's no longer up to date and it's leading you down a path that is no longer the best path to go because the answer, though correct in 2017, is no longer correct in 2021. We will also notice on stack overflow is in threads with a lot of answers. It's always a good idea to scroll down to check if there are more recent answers, because many times more recent and more accurate answers may have less votes and therefore appear further down an answer chain. That said, it's also important to check if an answer has been recently updated as is the case here. In this search for how do I remove a property from a JavaScript object? The question was asked 12 years ago and the questioned answer was active 12 days ago. So even though the original best answer, the one with 8,800 up votes was published, let's see, in 2008, the answer was updated on February 4th this year. So even though the answer is very old, it's been updated very recently and is therefore still accurate. In short, anytime you find information on the web check the date and the updated date to make sure it's still current.