Search engines outperforming internal site search
- [Instructor] Search is a complex process that involves a lot more than just matching text strings from a database. These complexities of search become very apparent anytime you're doing an internal search on a site and then compare that internal search to what Google and other search engines are able to provide you. Let me show you an example. I need to find information about how to extend the class in JavaScript. So I go to MDN and I search for extend class. What I would expect to see here is some form of answer about how to extend the class, but what I get instead is information about the extend API and then the class reference in JavaScript, which is similar to what I'm looking for, but not specifically what I'm looking for. There's also information about the HTML attribute called class and so on and so forth. So scrolling down the search here, I'm not finding the information I'm looking for, even though I know it exists inside MDN web docs. And the thing is, if I say extend class JavaScript, I'm still not getting the information I'm looking for. Now, compare this to what happens in Google. I'll make the same search here and I'll just amend it by adding on MDN at the end to tell Google I want results from MDM. So I'll say extend class MDN. The very top results from Google is something called classes extends JavaScript. And when I go to it, I discover MDN actually has a page dedicated to the specific search term I'm making, JavaScript, JavaScript reference, classes, and extends. So Google was able to find the information that's inside MDN, but MDN's internal search engine was not able to surface that same information. Now, this is likely because the terms class and extend are used so much in so many different contexts that the internal search engine in MDN just simply isn't able to connect this search together and figure out exactly what I'm looking for. But Google has so much information and so much advanced search functionality and language processing that it's able to figure out what the search is about and surface that specific article directly to me without having to do further searches. MDN is just one example of this phenomenon. I find that in most cases doing a site-specific search using Google renders far more accurate results than using the internal search systems of the site itself. It's just because Google is better at not only indexing sites, but also understanding what our search queries are and directing us towards the right information. But that's not always the case though. Let me show you an example. If I want to search for the nullish coalescing operator in JavaScript, which is denoted with two question marks, and I do that search in Google, I'm not going to get the result I want. This search renders information about JavaScript itself, but nothing about the nullish coalescing operator. That's because in the Google search, question question is an operator in the search algorithm. So Google is thinking that I'm giving it some sort of command and then just not finalizing my command. It does not understand what I'm asking for, so it just gives me an answer to the question JavaScript. If, on the other hand, I go back to MDN and do an internal search here for JavaScript question mark, question mark and hit Return, the very first answer I get is nullish coalescing operator question mark, question mark, which is exactly what I'm looking for. So even though in most cases it's better to use an external search engine to search internal sites, in some cases, the external search engine simply isn't able to surface what you're looking for and the internal site will be able to give you the information you need.