Searching GitHub
- [Instructor] GitHub has become the largest repository of open source code on the web, and it's a fantastic resource for finding answers to pressing coding questions. There are several ways you can use GitHub to find answers. Search for repositories like npm packages that provide you with complete or partially complete solutions, search within repositories for specific code examples, or a search issues, pull requests, and discussions for things like errors and how to fix them. When searching for repositories, start by doing a Google search for what you're looking for. For example, if I want a React modal, I would search Google first to see if there is a package available. If the search is JavaScript related, there's a good chance the top result will be an npm package, and usually directly below that answer is the GitHub repo for that same package. But if it's not, if you only see the npm package, that's fine. You can go to npm, scroll down, and you'll find a reference to the repository this package lives in, and you can get directly to GitHub from the npm package. You could, of course, do the same search for a repo in GitHub, but as with the nvm example earlier in the course, internal search on GitHub is not always as smart as the search engine, so I find I have better luck when I do a search on Google for these types of things. Now, if you're looking for specific code examples, maybe how to implement a specific feature, you can also do an internal search inside a GitHub repo. So for example, if I want to see if Addy Osmani used promises in his Critical repository, I can go to the Critical repository, go to search, and just search for promise, and then say I want to search in this repository. What I'm actually doing here is a code search inside the main branch of the repository, and the results I'm getting are the direct code examples of where a promise is being used. So I'm searching inside the repository itself. Note that this type of code search is only available for public repos. You have to be logged in to perform a code search, and the search only indexes the main branch, so you're not searching any of the other branches. If you want to do more advanced searches, GitHub offers an advanced search option to specify exactly what you're looking for, and you can narrow down your search using filters, including who wrote the content, what repository you want to search in, when it was last updated, how popular it is, et cetera, et cetera. All of that is found under github/search/advanced. If you want to do even more advanced searches, or you want to shortcut your search process, you can also go check out the searching code documentation, which breaks down all the advanced search algorithms that you can hook into using custom keys, and custom variables, and everything else in the search algorithm. When I run into trouble trying to implement some feature, I often use very specific searches on GitHub to find real-world examples of that feature being used in practice. As an example, when I was building out one of my courses on Gatsby, I was having trouble getting a pagination plugin to work, even when I followed the documentation instructions to the letter. To find out what was going on, I searched GitHub for examples of the same feature implemented. To narrow down that search, I picked the most specific part of the code to identify the feature I was looking for while at the same time, not adding any of my own custom code. Then, I specified what file I wanted to search in, which was gatsby-node.js, and where that file should sit in the repository in the root folder. The resulting search string looked like this, paginate createPage Filename gatsby-node.js path:/ In return, I got a long list of instances where the feature was implemented, and I could then read through and compare my own code to these active examples of the same code to see if I had made a mistake, or if there was some sort of bug built into the system, or if I was just omitting something or just doing it wrong in some way. Now, code searches lead you to implemented code, but often what you need is some explanation of an error. For this, searching in issues, pull requests, and discussions is a great idea because if you run into an error, there is a good chance someone else has run into that same error before you and has talked about it on GitHub. Here, again, I usually use a search engine rather than GitHub itself because in my experience, I get more accurate results. If I append site:github.com and just search for an error, then you often land right in the middle of an issue that has a discussion on what's going on and maybe even a solution. The interesting thing here is you can often find the right answer even if the scenario or tech example is slightly different from your own situation. Example, a while back, I was having trouble getting PostCSS to work nicely in a project. So I searched, PostCSS not working site github.com, and the first hit I got was an issue about Tailwind. Now, I wasn't using Tailwind or Laravel, but reading through this issue discussion, I found the answer to my problem. I needed to PostCSS loader. I hadn't done that. Therefore nothing was working. GitHub is an amazing resource and becomes even more of a resource once you realize how you can use search to really dig into the data. So I encourage you to check out their search documentation and start using this liberally. Also, while you're at it, check out Ray Villalobos course, GitHub Quick Tips, for a lot more on how to get the most out of GitHub itself.