Get to know NoSQL
- [Melanie] I'm pretty excited to help you get started on NoSQL Essentials. I remember back trying to hook up my first database to the web in the 90s. It's before I graduated on to SQL. My first couple of attempts were with an Access database. I mean, can you even imagine? I think the website supported maybe three or four users at a time. I'm not kidding and I might even be exaggerating here. The scalability was pathetic. People would get locked out and the very young me would be frantically restarting services at three am. We've come a very long way. Hi, there I'm Mel McGee, CEO and Founder of We Can Code IT, an award-winning coding boot camp championing social equity through technology. I've been a software developer and data geek for over 20 years. NoSQL was made for the web and insane amounts of concurrent users and massive volumes of data. It's remarkably agile and it fits right into place for most development teams, allowing coders to stay inside their development environments and away from designing SQL database, like I used to. Throughout this course, I'll introduce you to NoSQL, explain how it's different from traditional relational databases, and talk a little bit about the theory behind it, too. You'll learn that NoSQL isn't just a single technology and I'll explain the different types of NoSQL databases on a high level. You'll even get a shot at playing with a popular NoSQL database, MongoDB, before moving on to explore the pros and cons of NoSQL and closing out the course by learning how to pick the right solution for your needs. Ready to get started on your learning adventure? Let's go.