Using the require function
- So what else do we have globally available to us in Node.js? Well, we have some references to the current file and the current directory. So let's replace this with a few console.log messages. Remember, console.log is available to us globally without having to import anything. So we want to log the __dirname and the __filename. We also want to make sure that we're in the right folder. So we will make sure that we're navigated correctly, typing cd, dragging that file directory over. And then we're going to say node global. So now this is going to point directly at the directory where the file is located and then directly at the file. So notice that the filename variable includes the entire path. So also available to us globally is the common.js module pattern. So this is the pattern we're going to use to import other code into our files. One way that we can import these other modules is we can use this function. First things first, we're going to import it and this typically happens at the top of the file. So we're going to import the path module from Node. Now, the path module is one of those core modules that's part of Node.js but in order to use it, we have to import it for us to be able to use all of these functions. So why might I want to use one of these functions? Well, I want to pull out just global.js from the file extension that we're getting from the filename variable. So the way that I can do that is we can use another template string. We'll say the file name is. We will use the template string here. And instead of just wrapping this around the filename, what we actually want to say is path.basename. And this is a function that's going to take in that filename as an argument. We also want to make sure to close this string. So we're opening it up with a back tick and closing it with a back tick. So when I hit save there, we should be able to run this again. Node global and check it out, we've plucked this from that string using this function. Any time we need to do any parsing of path values, we can use these functions. So another thing that we can do is let's take a look at what's else is available to us as part of that global object. To do so, we're going to use a for loop. So we'll say let key in global and then we'll console.log each one of these keys. So what we're saying here essentially is let's take a look at that global object and specifically, let's look at all of the keys that are part of that object. So you want to hit Save again, you want to run this again. Remember, you can hit the up arrow to see all of the previous commands that you've run. And this is going to give you some information about the global is available is here as well as a bunch of timing functions. So we're going to discuss some of these other global elements in the next couple lessons.