Using standard output
- [Instructor] So with our file, we want to change the code a bit to collect answers from our terminal. So the first thing we want to do is let's make sure to move our ask function above our process standard input. Another thing I'm noticing here is that this is looking for answers.length. If we wanted to set this to be an empty array, we could always add a default here. So we could add a default argument to this function and remove this from our function invocation here. So that's one thing we can do. The second thing I want to do is instead of echoing the answer back out, let's go ahead and add this to the array. So we're going to replace process standard input.write with answers.push. We'll take data, convert it to a string and trim off any white space. The next thing we want to do is say if our answers.length is less than our questions.length, then we want to call the ask function again with answers.length. So whatever the length of that answers array is. Otherwise, if there are as many answers as there are questions, we want to call process.exit to tell our process to quit. Now if we run node global again, it'll say what is your name? What would you rather be doing? What is your preferred programming language? And there we go. Now we can answer our questions and as we cycle through them, we're saving our answers but we've collected them but we're not really doing anything with them yet. So let's go back and display the results. In addition to this data event where if we have some new data, we're going to do everything that's inside of this function. We're going to call process.on and whenever we call exit, we're going to call another function. So check this out. First, we're going to say process.standard output. So write this to the terminal. We'll add some spaces here. Then we'll say process standard output.write and we're going to use a template string to add the message. We'll say Go answers one. We'll add a space. Answers zero and then you can say you can finish writing answers two later. Okay, so that's a long, long string but check this out. This is going to pluck the second item from the array, the first item from the array, our name, and then the programming language of choice to add that to our string. So let's see what we get. We're going to take another look. Node global, what's your name? What would you rather be doing? What's your preferred programming language. Go Skiing Eve you can finish writing JavaScript later. So our program is extremely friendly. It's some good advice. I'm going to trust the technology and end the lesson here. But before I do, remember the standard input and standard output objects give us some powerful tools for communication with running a process. So these tools are available on the process object, meaning that you can use them anywhere.