HTTP status messages
- [Instructor] The HTTP response status codes at the top of the REST response header gives the client an immediate notification about the status of the request-response pair. The client can use these response codes to identify successes and failures and automatically respond with next steps. Th HTTP response status codes are split into five main groupings. 100 codes for information, 200 codes for success, 300 codes for redirection, 400 codes for client error, and 500 codes for server error. Status codes of the 100 format are informational and rarely encountered. They're used to inform the client of the status of the server, typically to wait for the server to finish, so something like, I got your request and I'm processing it, hold on. Or to continue with the request. I have an open connection for you, please send your request now, and stuff like that. Generally, we don't really see 100 status codes much at all. Status codes of the 200 format are success messages. Here, you find common codes including 200 OK, which means the request was successful, 201 created which means the request was successful and a new resource was created, and 204 no content, meaning the server processed the request, but returned no content. Status codes of the 300 format indicate redirection. The client is provided with a new URL to follow to get to the resource. These codes include 301 moved permanently, which tells the client, use this URI for all future requests. 302 found, which technically means resource temporarily redirected to this other URI, but it's most often used to mean, the response to this resource is actually found at this other URI, which is the real job of 303 see other, and just to confuse things, there's also 307 for temporary redirect, and 308 for permanent redirect, because reasons. The important thing here is, if you are handling redirects in your client, or you are generating redirect messages when you build your own REST APIs, you have to account for all these different variants and figure out which one of these response codes you want to use to make things clear. Because unfortunately, the 300 response code set is quite confusing. Status codes for the 400 format signal client errors. Here, you'll find 400 bad request, meaning the request is malformed or too large, or similar. 401 unauthorized meaning the client lacks proper authentication to access the resource. 403 forbidden meaning the request is outright refused by the server, typically because the client is not logged in, or does not have the correct permissions. The well-known 404 not found, which means the resource does not exist in the first place. And 405 method not allowed, which kicks in if you try to use an HTTP verb like post on a resource that can only receive get requests. There are also myriad of other client error messages you can get with the HTTP messaging, so I encourage you to go check out all of them once you're done watching this movie. The last group, status codes of the 500 format signals server errors. Here, we have 500 internal server error, meaning something went wrong of the server. 502 bad gateway meaning the server acts as a literal gateway or proxy, and received an invalid response from whatever it's trying to connect to. And the fairly common 503 service unavailable which is encountered when a server is overloaded or temporarily unavailable. There are more HTTP status messages, but these are the ones you're most likely to encounter working with REST APIs. Now that you're done watching this movie, I encourage you to go check out the full list of HTTP status codes at Wikipedia, that breaks down all the different codes, what they mean, and you'll also see that enormous list of 400 codes for all the different types of errors a client can generate.