REST and Authorization/Authentication
- The response you get from a REST API depends on the authorization level you have when you make the request. Most REST APIs provide leveled access meaning all users can submit limited GET, HEAD, and OPTIONS requests. Some users can submit POST requests and a rare few users can submit PUT, PATCH, and DELETE requests. To get a quick view of this we can send two HEAD requests to the same resource. First, an unauthenticated request. For this unauthenticated request the allow header down here on line 10 says, Allow: GET, meaning anyone can send a GET request to this resource but nothing else. Now let's see what happens if I add an authorization header to my requests. To do so I'll go back to my request, type in Authorization: and then say this is basic authorization and provide my user name and my password. Just before I continue, the local WordPress site I'm working with is set up with Basic authentication which is extremely insecure. You can see I'm passing the username password in clear text. This would never happen anywhere online. When interacting with REST APIs in the real world including the WordPress REST API, you typically encounter more robust authorization protocols like Chase on web tokens and oh off two that are encrypted and require multiple levels of authorization. This example uses basic authentication just for the simplicity of this particular course. When I pass along an authentication header with a username and password to an account with full capabilities, the response on the right hand side here changes. Most notably you'll notice on line 12 here, Allow now says GET, POST, PUT, PATCH, and DELETE effectively giving me full control over this resource. There are also some additional headers here including Expires, Cache-Control, and Keep-Alive that tell the client, "Hey you are now authenticated and logged in, but you might get kicked out at some point. Then you have to log back in to get everything to work properly." But that's not important. What matters here is you can see clearly when you authorize yourself into a REST API the response from the REST API may change significantly and what you can do with the REST API will also change.