Why do we need a DevOps culture?
- I'm sure it doesn't come as a big surprise that in general, IT departments are not the most beloved part of any business. Businesses have been using technology to deliver services for decades now, but success and satisfaction rates with IT continue to be low. - You may have seen comedy TV shows and movies like "Office Space," the "IT Crowd," or "Silicon Valley" based on the premise that all these smart people just can't get anything done. They're based on the very real observation of misalignment between business teams and technology teams. Even inside technology organizations, there's friction between teams, developers, quality assurance, asadmins, information security professionals, network admins. - Don't forget the DBAs. - Yeah, we can't forget the database administrators. All of these groups often find themselves in conflict with each other, and with the users or business people making demands on them. - [Presenter In Brown] So, what's the cause of this conflict? In DevOps, we illustrate this with the "wall of confusion." The prototypical example is a developer who writes their code and then just throws it over the wall to an operations engineer who's supposed to deploy it and support it. - That's how it works in many organizations. The business throws requirements over the wall of confusion to developers, who throw it over a wall to testers, who throw it over a wall to operations, who throw it over the final wall to end users. This creates a division between groups that should share a common goal. - [Presenter In Brown] You can see how these unilateral, one-way throws don't facilitate the information flows that The Three Ways describe. - Here's a real world example. Long ago, I led a web operations team in an enterprise. Developers would tell me that they were working on a new application for our website, and then we had to go work with another infrastructure team to get new servers. It took us six weeks to get a new server. We'd work with that team to negotiate specifications, then it would go through the procurement process, be ordered from the supplier, delivered, racked and installed in the data center, get the operating system loaded, and finally handed over to us. Then, we'd put on application servers and the like and give it to the developers usually way after they needed them. Then one fine day, a virtualization vendor came by. They showed how you could provision a new virtual server in 15 minutes. Great, we bought it. - Oh, that's like an amazing improvement. - You'd think. But after that, guess how long it took our team to get new servers? - I don't know, like 15 minutes? - That would've been great, but no, four weeks. The only time savings was the two weeks usually spent for the hardware order to be fulfilled. While creating the server took 15 minutes, our own processes incurred four weeks of overhead, all in the name of virtuous things like standards, and tickets, and documentation. But it brought into sharp contrast the fact that we were turning something that really only took 15 minutes and one person into a messy situation that took four weeks and a variety of participants. - And business decision makers just don't find that acceptable. You know all those IT comedies we mentioned before? They have an aspect of technologists fooling users and non-technical managers because they, you know, don't understand the technology. - [Presenter In Red] But today, most business executives are pretty tech savvy, and when they see something that should take 15 minutes take four weeks, they start looking for answers. Answers to why their money and time are being drained away on something that's not making them more competitive in the marketplace. - And that's a fair question. As a result, many have turned to outsourcing or keeping their own shadow IT separate from the central IT department to solve this. But, these approaches cause as many new issues as they solve. - The organizations and processes we've built up around IT have become a direct impediment to business success. How can we change our culture when this model and our behaviors based on its assumptions have become so ingrained? - [Presenter In Brown] Yeah, you combat the confusion by fostering a culture that encourages The Three Ways: alignment of everyone working on a service or product along the value stream, adding feedback loops, and continuous improvement. - But change is hard, and is easier said than done. To change the way your organization operates, you have to change how individual people think and act, and shared customs about how people think and act is the very definition of culture. - So the three areas to focus on to create this culture are communication, collaboration, and continuous learning. We'll dig into each one next.