Communication and trust power DevOps
- Communication and trust are a key part of a productive DevOps culture. - I've seen projects from application deployments to network upgrades to corporate acquisitions succeed or fail based on the quality of communication. Without building a culture of communication and trust, you'll find that attempts to implement specific technical practices will go wrong, sabotaged either deliberately because of competing goals, or inadvertently because of lack of understanding. - Most people would agree that communication's important, but how do we do it well? - Good communication requires more than just reminding people to write documentation or post in chat. - [James] Right, you want to be mindful of how to set up communication channels. If you intend information to flow to others, there should be a place and time you all agree on to communicate. - [Instructor] Have published standards. Here's the file repository all customer information will go into. Here's the chat channel all downtime incident communication will go into. Here's the email alias that software release communication will go to. - You know, good communication doesn't just happen. It requires a plan, especially for fast moving organizations or high-pressure situations like outages. You should have processes that say when and to whom people need to communicate around business events. In fact, please take a minute and share what communication techniques work best for your organization in the course Q&A so we can keep this conversation on best practices going. - [Instructor] Communication and transparency gets people information that they need, but even more importantly, it builds trust. - Sociologist Ron Westrum created a model based on his research showing three major types of organizations and the resulting information flow. Organizations that work simply by everyone looking out for their own needs, which he calls pathological organizations, organizations that focus on strictly defined roles and teams defending their turf, those are bureaucratic organizations, and organizations that focus on the mission result in a generative style, which have the most effective information flow. - Research across many fields, healthcare, aviation, tech, shows that good information flow results in better organizational safety, organizational performance, and productivity. Creating a generative organization requires building an environment of high trust, where otherwise bad news is welcomed. Those who bring it are trained and celebrated, and it's used to learn and improve. - But how do you build trust and respect and eliminate blame and hostility so that people feel safe to work together and to take chances to innovate? - Well, first, not everyone has good social skills and can have challenges with successfully interacting with people. I personally went from painfully introverted as a young man to an abrasive engineer in my early career before I realized how important communication skills are to success, and I put work into building them. - Well, now you're smooth as silk. I've had a different journey, being a little bit more extroverted by nature, but I've also had to work on communication a lot throughout my career. - There's a set of books that we've both found helpful, like "How to Win Friends and Influence People," "Crucial Conversations," "How to Say It At Work," and others that we've put in the course handout. If you find it challenging to have friendly, successful interactions with other people, or if you have difficult relationships to navigate, you could make a goal to read one of these books per quarter to improve. - Beyond that, the single biggest impediment to trust in an organization is misunderstanding due to lack of context. It's very rare that someone is acting out of malice. Most people are honestly trying to do a good job in the way that they think is best, given the constraints that they perceive. Assume good faith when information is lacking. - Someone else's job is always easier, isn't it? When James and I were first working together, I had a senior developer confront me as the leader of our web operations team, frustrated that his project wasn't higher on our priority list. He said, "I don't know why we need your team anyway. All you guys do is move files around." Of course, I had an overworked team of operations engineers doing software deployments, building new servers, improving our monitoring, handling a large load of on-call incidents, performing all of our cybersecurity, and more. While that developer could probably have benefited from a lesson in respectful language, a large part of their frustration came from just plain not knowing what our team was doing. - The fix wasn't to recoil from that or fight back, but lean into communication. We set up a program including the development teams, operations teams, and business teams to create shared goals and provide visibility into how we all were working together. This promoted understanding and things worked a lot better after that. - You know, the IT security world has done a pretty good job of teaching everyone about least privilege and separation of duties. Unfortunately, these terms often become a knee jerk justification for locking access down way past what any real world compliance requires. - Transparency and teamwork have business value. Don't settle for restricting communication without a compelling reason when there's value in sharing. You know, there's no shortcut to building mutual trust. It develops over time. - People fear what they don't understand. Be open, be transparent. Let people get context even if you're not there personally to give it to them. That means let them come into your chat rooms, see your team Wiki pages, see your code, your infrastructure, your monitoring tool, your ticket tracker. Always think about what you could communicate that will help others do their job or understand your context better. Remember, sharing is a key part of our values in CAMS and the feedback loops of the three ways depend on information flow. - And on the flip side, be curious and respectful. You're working with good people. Try to understand their perspective so you can align your goals with them. Focus on shared goals, and show that you value others and their needs.