Collaboration: Break silos in case of DevOps
- Collaboration towards a common goal is the secret sauce to making DevOps work. Yet, we've already talked about the wall of confusion that creates a division between groups that should share a common goal. - It's often assumed that these divisions are caused by the stereotype that technology professionals just have poor people skills. While communication is an important part of solving the problem, this overlooks the institutional causes of the wall of confusion. - That's right. The real cause is that the institution is incentivizing opposing behavior. - In the classic shop, the development teams are charged with developing new functionality, making changes, and moving as fast as possible. - At the same time, operations teams are charged with the conflicting responsibilities of maintaining stability and controlling change. Then those teams are given goals and metrics that only care about their individual role, and encourage them to pursue that goal, speed or stability, in this case, at all costs. - This causes a harmful conflict of interest, and diminishes feedback loops. Incentivizing groups to only care about their own areas' results creates a less optimal outcome for the organization. This is local optimization getting in the way of global optimization. - [Instructor] There's a concept called Conway's Law that states that when you try to design systems, your systems will merely always align themselves to your communication boundaries. Organizational boundaries are one type of communication boundary. - The first wave of DevOps tells us to align around the value stream of whatever we're producing. If your organization structure is counter to that, you're in a tight spot. - You know, change is hard, and organizations want to uptake DevOps without having to do any hard work. - [Ernest] Just renaming an existing team, DevOps, or making a new team called DevOps does nothing to change your communication structure or improve collaboration. If that's all you do, don't be surprised when nothing improves. You need real change. - Yeah, one of the most effective techniques here is to break down team barriers, and get people from different specialties to work alongside each other in what we call cross-functional teams. - I was working at a large SaaS company in Austin, Texas that had completely separate dev and ops teams, and life on the ops team was a never ending nightmare of developer demands interspersed with outages. So, we started by embedding an ops engineer into a dev team that was working to roll out a new product. He joined the team full-time, sat with them, and all of the operations tasks went into the same ticket backlog with the developer tasks, and there were some initial shock when the developer saw the huge number of epics and stories they brought with them, but then they dug in, and they realized that those were all critical items required for their new service to go live. They had no idea all the work that went into operational readiness for a production SaaS service. The entire team pitched in and started pulling what were previously considered ops tasks to unblock their release, and from that day on, the ops engineer was one of them, and they have nothing but respect for them, and they increasingly shared work and responsibility for the production service going forward. - [Instructor] Well, that was a great story. Right on, there, Ernest. You know, by putting the right people on a team, and focusing them on a single business goal, you can maintain a very high pace, because the team isn't blocked by other teams from making progress, and isn't tempted to advocate responsibility for the end result, because it's in someone else's hands. - But you can't just always put everybody on the same team. Optimal team size is pretty small, given psychology research. So, what else can you do? - Another great option is to set up self-service tooling to allow teams access to shared services in an automated way. If, for example, you can get the cloud server instances you need through a self-service portal, instead of having to go log a ticket, and wait in a queue for some other person who understands nothing about your needs and use case to do it manually, well, you can drive a lot of efficiency. - When you can't avoid having multiple teams involved in a single value flow, you need to double down on making sure they have aligned communication paths and goals. And many times, people's roles have to change. Developers may have to take responsibility for a failing builder deployment after they've checked in their code. They have to be willing to go on call to support their applications in production. Operations and QA engineers have to change their approach to provide self-service platforms and guidance instead of just doing work for other people. - This is the three-step path to enhancing collaboration in our culture. Reduce separate teams in the value chain by eliminating silos and creating cross-disciplinary teams, use self-service to virtually remove other teams, and align goals, and promote collaboration and mutual support in the remaining teams. - Take a minute to put some ideas in the course notebook. How mature is your organization in these areas? And what are some specific actions that you might be able to take to make some steps towards these goals?