Continuous learning the DevOps way
- The third way of DevOps talks about creating a culture of continuous experimentation and learning, which means mastering your own core skills as well as experimenting and taking risks in order to learn more practically. - And you heard that a generative culture in the Western model encourages innovation and learning from failure, so how exactly do we do that? - In DevOps, we love Japanese words, not just because they're really cyberpunk, but also because Lean was adopted so strongly in Japan, and we get a lot of loan words back from them, like kaizen. - Kaizen literally means change for the better, and we might roughly translate it as continuous improvement. Kaizen is a large part of the famous Lean model of the Toyota production system, or TPS. - Yeah, we're putting new cover sheets on all the TPS reports before they go out now. - Yeah, not that kind of TPS. Kaizen says the small changes people make to improve things over time can generate large results. - Masaaki Imai's book, "Kaizen: The Key to Japan's Competitive Success," introduced kaizen to the Western world in 1986, and it's been used by companies from Lockheed Martin to Pixar Animation Studios to improve the way they operate. It's a process that encourages everyone to look for ways to improve all parts of the job as an ongoing part of everyday work and then make small iterative changes for the better. - There are five principles that guide kaizen. They will sound familiar as they echo many of the points of Kim's in "The Three Ways." They are knowing the customer, enabling smooth workflow, going to the real place, or gemba, empowering people, and maintaining transparency. Now, you don't have to follow a strict kaizen process, but these are all things worth thinking about in an example of how to apply DevOps culture in an organized way. - There's a word that James mentioned that might be unfamiliar, gemba, that's worth discussing a little more. In Japanese, it means the real place. Kaizen emphasizes going to look at the actual place where the value's created or where the problem is, not reports, metrics, processes, or documentation about it. It's actually going to look at it. - That's right. Show up in the project meeting. Go look at the code. Go try and use the system having problems. You know, don't rely on secondhand information or assumptions. You know, go see. Dr. Richard Cook, a noted physician and research scientist at Ohio State University has what he calls Cook's Rule Number 6: if they call you about a patient, go see the patient. This is gemba. - The kaizen improvement process, or kata, is simple, and it's a cycle of plan, do, check, act. First, you define what you intend to do and what you expect the results to be. Then you execute on that. Then you measure and analyze the result and make any alterations needed, but you're doing this in small ways every day. This isn't primarily for year-long digital transformation efforts. It's a regular practice. - If the results of your newest plan are better than the previous baseline, now it's the new baseline, and in any event, it might suggest subsequent plan, do, check, act cycles. - This cycle shouldn't sound too new to you. It's basically a more tactical form of the scientific method we all got taught in school. - Oh, yeah. Yeah, I remember that. - Yeah, but it's surprising how often we don't apply it to our business activities, instead, using one of the popular variations like plan, don't do, hide, try to make it to Friday. - Well, they say everybody is working for the weekend. - Everybody needs a second chance. - Seriously, this simple process of plan, do, check, act does more than just give value in generating improvements. It's just as much about teaching people critical thinking skills. Toyota refers to this as building people before building cars. - The third way of DevOps is largely based on kaizen, so it's a great source of ideas on how to tangibly implement this kind of continuous learning environment. In fact, why don't you start now? There's a notebook function in one of the tabs on the course page. You can use it to take notes as we go on in the course on small, tangible next steps that you think you can take to make headway in iterating towards DevOps. - And that's the third component of a culture that will make it much easier to be successful at DevOps as you start to implement the many technical practices that it provides.