Platform engineering: The paved road
- So how the heck do you create your infrastructure as code, make your builds continuous, have great incident response and make it all secure and compliant while demanding developers and complaining end users are all up in your business? You can stay on top of it for a little while, but how do you scale it out? Because if you align along value streams, as you create multiple streams and have many dev and ops teams creating solutions, you get a greater diversity of solutions which can lead to chaos. Well, this is where the ah in comms comes to the rescue, automation. The first organizations that hit extreme scale in DevOps, like Netflix, Meta, Google and Spotify hit this and invested in creating self-service automation for people to get what they need out of the system. This approach is referred to as creating a golden path or a paved road. While a lot of the early discovery in DevOps had the flavor of blazing a trail through the wilderness. Once you figure out the things you need, you can build something to make it better, faster, and easier to use, an opinionated framework that does these things in a certain way. And then having the paved road incentivizes more people to use it. Sure, your team could come up with their own CI/CD pipeline or observability set up, but that's pretty complicated to do, right? Unless you really do have specific needs, it's easier to use the one being provided for you and then improvements to that road benefit more people when you make them and team members find it easier to move from project to project. CI/CD pipelines are one of the most basic examples of a paved road. You have automated check-in hooks, run tests automatically on pull request, do automatic test deployments, all things that used to be manual and error prone, and now people have a common right way to do it that makes it faster and better. I've worked on platforms that let end users spin up their own cloud account to develop in and their own HPC cluster to do machine learning on. This ends up being a really, really good dynamic. Say you build a solution that lets users provision their own cloud hardware and run their own builds, easily plug into your standard observability and get security guidance as an automated service. This prevents all the waste and delay of waiting on other teams to perform low value work for you, and you can build in guidance and compliance to the structure instead of leaving it to process and human memory. Recently, highly comprehensive paved road creation has been rebranded as platform engineering. Instead of a paved road, don't you want a supersonic train? Something that tightly combines development, test, deploy, infrastructure creation, observability, security, runtime environment, scaling, service discovery. Platform engineering can be defined as the discipline of designing and building tool chains and workflows that enable self-service capabilities for software engineering organizations. Many organizations are investing in building out internal platforms and some vendors are starting to sell 'em. That can be a good idea, but it can also go wrong. I'm going to cut to the chase and ask you directly, what's the difference between a cool modern DevOps platform and the horrid, frustrating centralized systems that many of us have been forced to waste our time with by distant uncaring IT departments over the decades, did we just spend a decade working to reinvent centralized IT? The difference is subtle, and that's the first challenge. Many old school control focused IT orgs want to slap a fresh coat of paint on their old painful centralized systems, call it a platform and ship it. Good platforms optimize the global system. They don't optimize for some central team's need, they optimize the value streams. The key ways to do this are to manage platforms like their product and take a lean approach. First, product management. Platforms need to serve their users, not their creators. Remember that compliance and process are waste from a lean perspective. Don't confuse them with the value. You should optimize for value. Real products that companies make for customers have product managers that help uncover their requirements, make sure the product is good, and work on marketing the product to the consumers. Netflix and other platform centric organizations don't even make using their platforms mandatory. They encourage their use, but just like in the real world, if somebody's forced to use your product, that product probably gets pretty bad over time. Second, a lean approach. There is absolutely such a thing as too much platform. Platforms take a lot of investment, and if you build too much upfront, it's pretty likely that you don't actually know what your needs are and you're wasting that development time. Blaze a trail, then pave the road, then build your train, learn where people need to go and how they need to get there before you invest in infrastructure. Full end-to-end platforms can be great if they're laser focused on making your dev and ops workers job easy and they don't constrain innovation by adding overhead or preventing you from doing new things when that's the right thing to do. Please share your own experiences in the course Q&A section with platforms that have worked well for you or have tormented you for community discussion.