DevSecOps: Making your systems more secure the DevOps way
- Tell me, was your last interaction with a security or compliance team enjoyable or not so much? A friend and coworker once told me, "You security people just want all the computers unplugged and powered off." I later went to a security event and the keynote speaker was talking about "stupid developers" who don't care about security. There's tension between information and security and other technical teams, but why? Originally, security was the job of system administrators and, to some degree, developers, but as InfoSec became a more complex field, specialization was required. Unfortunately, this created new silos, which spawned the same kind of issues as the walls between dev and ops. Those siloed security teams have different priority teams from the other technical teams, which leads to natural friction. Sometimes their focus is more compliance oriented and can seem like busy work to teams trying to build things for users. This problem gets worse because InfoSec tends to have few staff assigned to it. A pretty typical ratio is 100 developers to 10 operation staff to one security person. You know, this is an order of magnitude problem. Security feels the burden of trying to get a lot done with very little resources, and in most organizations it lives far downstream on the value stream. And being siloed, they get applications and systems thrown over the wall to them, and they throw random lists of demands back. When surveyed, developers say they do care about security, but they don't have enough time and often don't even know what the security team wants them to do. The attempt to fix this is called DevSecOps. Wait, wait, wait, wait. DevSecOps? Do we really need a new name? Are we eventually going to have to call it DevSecTestNetDBOps? Well, DevOps is supposed to include everyone, but the term has turned out to be a useful bridge to help security folks feel welcome. So fair enough. No matter what you call it, we're bringing DevOps principles and practices to security. Let's revisit our DevOps culture, CAMS, culture, automation, measurement, and sharing with a security lens. The culture of DevSecOps is best captured in this tenant created by Zane Lackey and Rich Smith over at Etsy. It says, "If security introduces blocking to the organization, it will be ignored, not embraced." This is a reminder that security works alongside developers. They can't slow down delivery by adding more gates and barriers to the work of delivering software. Otherwise, the value stream will do what it does best with any blocker and it'll route around it. Automation builds in security and security tools to the development and operational environment. One way to do this is called shifting left. Since value streams are often represented as flowing from the far left to the far right, shifting left means introducing security earlier in the development process and not waiting to do some kind of scan once everything is already done and in production. This means using security tools earlier in the development lifecycle, often in the IDE and the CI system where developers are already working. Because CI/CD theory tells us that the sooner we catch issues like using fast feedback, the easier it is to fix them. Shifting tools left in the pipeline, it sounds like a no-brainer, but since I've started a company to make security easy for developers at Dry Run Security, I've heard many stories of how shift left got applied to the detriment of developers. It's kind of classic platform engineering gone bad, where an InfoSec team just dumps their own work on all the developers optimizing for themselves, not for overall value creation. This can present itself as bloated bill times or forcing developers to parse archaic security tools. Shifting left can be a good thing, but it must be aligned to the value stream and designed so that security has minimal effect on the overall cycle time. Sharing means building bridges by involving devs and ops in sharing information and responsibility both ways with the InfoSec team. An under-resourced security team can deputize security champions in each group. You find them by hosting Capture the Flag events, searching code repos for past security bug fixers, or just asking for volunteers. This is a good way to jumpstart a culture shift where security becomes part of the delivery of the software. The InfoSec team can train the champions and the champions help them understand the concerns, processes, and values of the product teams. Measurement establishes good observability and metrics around security and uses them to create joint goals the teams can agree on. In some places, security relies on FUD, you know, fear, uncertainty, and doubt, to just try and push teams into doing what they want the way they want. But that's not very inspiring for engineers and it's not very DevOps or very DevSecOps. Okay, DevSecOps is a big topic. There are several courses on it in the library, including a few that I've written that would be worth exploring. No matter what you call it, whether DevSecOps or just DevOps, security is critical and there are newer, better ways to go about getting it together.