Cloud native and Kubernetes
- You probably won't get far into looking into DevOps technologies nowadays without hearing a bunch of people suddenly scream, "Kubernetes," like they're watching Elvis wiggle his hips for the first time. - Well, and Ernest does a pretty mean hip wiggle too. It's why they'll only film him from the waist up for the course. - We encourage all learners to correct this injustice by leaving a course comment saying, "Unleash the wiggle." - Okay, anyway, Kubernetes is an open-source container orchestration system for automating software deployment, scaling, and management. In other words, a place for you to install and run your containerized applications. - Now, I can already hear you asking, "Cool story, bro, but why is that exciting?" The first reason is that it's a platform framework that lets you automate a lot of the plumbing required to run your applications. Besides the deployment and scaling, it lets you add in management features, like observability, service discovery, health monitoring, custom networking, and many others in a standardized way so that application developers get a lot of capabilities without having to build them themselves. - Right, and it also abstracts the infrastructure away, allowing compute, networking, and storage to be managed by the Kubernetes platform. This has resulted in Kubernetes becoming somewhat of a standard to deploy and manage your apps across on-premise, different cloud providers and so on. Attempts at making applications multi-cloud were never very good. But since Kubernetes add such a thick service layer, it mostly accomplishes this goal. You just take a containerized application, say you want some number of redundant instances deployed across the multiple nodes in the cluster, expose an API and you're good to go. - [Ernest] As a result, Kubernetes has become very popular. It lets one team worry about building out the platform, and others worry about writing their apps to deploy on it. - And since it got so popular, people have built many tools and products to add onto it. Many of these are part of the Cloud Native Computing Foundation, or CNCF. Here's their interactive tool landscape. Wow, that's a lot of options. - Cloud native is a term that just means Kubernetes add-on. And even though it says cloud, you don't have to run Kubernetes or these other tools in the cloud. That wasn't the original intention behind the term. And there are other technologies you could legitimately describe as being cloud native, using the dictionary definition of the words. But marketing dollars beats logic. So anytime you hear cloud native in the industry, that should tell you that you're looking at something that's designed to work with Kubernetes. - Kubernetes is good and popular, but like any technology, you have to be careful when and how you use it to get the benefits. So the first challenge we already showed you is all the options. While Kubernetes is very highly configurable and you have more than 20 choices just for something like a network backplane, that means a large amount of complexity and learning curve. So most Kubernetes platforms end up consisting of at least a dozen stitch together tools. So upgrades and interoperability turn into a good bit of work. - James and I worked at a startup doing chaos engineering for Kubernetes, and we discovered most Kubernetes admins didn't have a solid grasp on how exactly their complex system behaved during deployments, scaling events, and other things that the platform is doing for you, but have user visible effects. - [James] Yeah, this is a good point. Remember your lean approach. Start simple, add complexity only when it's absolutely needed, and take the time to understand how your platform really works in the real world. Because when an incident happens, lack of understanding of what is going on under the hood, that will become a problem. - And that leads to the second challenge, which is that a given Kubernetes installation is big and heavy and costly. Once you get all the base tooling on, it's easy to spend hundreds of dollars a month for a Base 3 server cluster in the cloud, even if it's not serving a single application or user. And you pretty much have to have a dedicated team to administer it. It's not light enough for a dev team to just handle it with a small additional effort. - [James] Yeah, so you want to consider whether Kubernetes might be overkill for what you're doing. Serverless or lighter container orchestration solutions will get you 80% of the benefits of Kubernetes with, like, 20% of the work. - And finally, it can work against your DevOps goals if you're not careful. We already talked about platform engineering and how a platform can be a great force multiplier for developers, or it can just make things easier for the team that owns it, while making things harder for everyone else. If you're not using systems thinking and keeping your DevOps CAMS values in mind as you move on to Kubernetes, you can easily generate silos and waste and not gain the benefits you were hoping for out of the considerable effort that it takes to do it. - So Kubernetes is a good tool to learn about and a very popular tool. Just make sure it's the right tool for the job at hand.