AIOps: Using AI in your DevOps work
- DevOps professionals who learn to use AI for their benefit are going to make a leap ahead in their careers. - [Speaker 2] But first, we should say that AI in any form doesn't replace an engineer, and you can't simply take output from an AI and check that code into your code repo and run it on your systems without evaluating and testing it first. - That's right, while AI assistance is awesome, we are still responsible for the impact we allow AI systems to have in our organization. - Yeah, you can't just blame the algorithm. - Until we're all in those matrix pods and the AI is running us, that is. - Why do we need AI? Many of us have too many tools, too many vendors, inconsistent documentation and complicated architectures in our day-to-day job that require too much specialized knowledge and context switching, - And that generates cognitive overload and it affects your ability to do your work. Large language models, or LLMs, which power generative AI tools like ChatGPT, can help take care of these problems and automate some of the dirty deeds of systems operations, and dirty deeds done dirt cheap may as well be the DevOps motto. - One way I've used AI in DevOps is by working with APIs and writing code. Do you ever find yourself trying really hard to remember what that command-line switch was for Curl? Well, not anymore. I just asked ChatGPT for a full batch script to scrape some data and then transform it and admit it over to a web hook. I don't need to remember exactly how to do those tasks. I just needed to know what to ask for and I can quickly create integrations across systems and interact with their APIs. - A common way vendors are adding AI to their products is letting you ask a question in natural language instead of having to use their obnoxious proprietary query language. You know who you are. - The real trick here though, is that you have to know what to ask for and give the model context on what you're trying to achieve. - [Speaker 1] That process is called prompt engineering, and because of the way these models work, questions asked in different ways garner different results. - Oh yeah, one pro tip is to warm up the prompt by asking it to respond to you as a DevOps engineer with Linux experience, for example. - A prompt hack I'll do is to ask it to explain a concept that I'm finding difficult to understand as if I'm a 12 year old. - So if you happen to have inherited some code in a language that you aren't familiar with, you can ask it to explain what it does in basic terms. - [Speaker 1] How else does AI help with DevOps? - [Speaker 2] Oh, well, you can use it to refactor code and write documentation. For example, you can ask it to break up scripts into modules and refactor terraform, or you can use it to write documentation for your build pipeline, so future engineers will know what that workflow does. - [Speaker 1] People are also using it to perform better detection and alerting from their monitoring data, and recommend or even perform courses of action to remediate outages. - [Speaker 2] And since programming languages are languages, and that's where AI is strong, it's really good at converting one programming language to another. - An example of this use of AIOps comes from our fellow Austinite, Rob Hirschfeld, where he uses ChatGPT to get tool independence. He can move off of one platform, say Terraform, by asking Chat GPT to convert his code into AWS CLI and Bash. - [Speaker 2] Oh yeah, that's right, then he takes that code to any other vendor and then he can get it converted into that tool's language. - [Speaker 1] Exactly. - Code reviews and security are two other areas where we're seeing these generative AI models being used. My company, DryRun Security, is using generative AI to find risky code changes before they make their way into the pipeline. We're finding it's way faster than traditional security testing, and it's improving inaccuracy. - You call that your automated security buddy, right? - That's right, yeah, we see it as a way to take the domain expertise of an application security tester and make it available to anyone as a friendly assistant. Using AI for DevOps work is still in the early days. It won't steal our jobs, but it will transform the way we work. - We think it'll come in three distinct waves. In wave one, it's about generating code. Inside your IDE, you'll get AI-assisted coding and code reviews and AI-generated tests and documentation. With tools like GitHub, Copilot and AWS Code Whisperer, this is already becoming a reality. - And then in wave two, it's all about the systems. These AI models will turn to alerting and monitoring cluster health and automating runbooks. People are trying this already, but it's in its infancy. The time is still yet to come when it's effective. They'll also be able to explain your systems to you. In fact, there's a tool called k8sgpt, that will explain your complex Kubernetes system state to you in more understandable terms. - And then wave three is about the people. We'll see AI make functionality self-service by making platforms easier for everyone to interact with on their own terms, and it'll also enhance collaboration between teams by providing an explanation of their work to each other. - In the end, AIOps will make DevOps more approachable and integrated across the business than ever before.