Challenge intro: Create a content factory
(upbeat music) - [Instructor] When you build websites and applications, you'll often use JavaScript to pull data from a source in the form of structured objects and then use the data within those objects to populate HTML to be displayed in the browser. This challenge lets you experiment with this scenario by creating a content factory function. In the answer code for the challenge here, you have a lot of stuff going on, so let's break it down from the top. First, we have a backpack constructor class that creates our backpack, and it also sets up this backpack age function that allows us to find out how old the backpack is. Then two backpacks are defined, one called everydayPack and one called frogPack, and down here, we have a constant with a backpack object array that contains the everydayPack object and the frogPack object. All of this creates the type of array structure that you normally encounter when you work with several pieces of content. You normally have an array of objects, and you can iterate through that array of objects to display each object in turn. Now we get to the main function. It's down here, create BackpackMarkup. This function will act on the document object to add new content in, and right now it's not complete. If you look at it, all it's doing is returning the everydayPack content to the document, which isn't really doing anything for us. In this challenge, I want you to first iterate through each of the items in the backpackObjectArray, and then for each of the items, create a new article element with an ID matching the ID field in the backpack object. Then use the backpackAge function within the constructor to calculate the backpack age and add it in place of the purchase date. So right now, you'll see it says age here, and then it just has date acquired, so you need to fix this by pulling in the function instead. And then finally, populate and return the content constant with an HTML structure matching the example below. The example below is the full output. So as you can see, what we have right now is almost what you need, but you need to match up this structure here with your new created items and make it so for each of these items in the array. As you work on this challenge, you'll make changes to everything inside the createBackupMarkup function, except for this line here. Make sure that you leave return content at the end, 'cause that's what we're returning to the testing code.