How to use Codespaces and what you should know
- [Instructor] One of the ways that we can interact with the files in this course is to use GitHub Code Spaces. You can just go to the GitHub repo for the course and add /codespaces to the end of it, and this will take you to a location where you can start to create your own code space. You do that here with create code space on main. It'll take a second for this to load up, but basically what this does is it loads a VS code editor right here in your browser. So all of the files will take a little moment to load up, but once they do, you're going to see them here on the left-hand side of the screen. So this left nav is just what you would expect, and you also have the terminal embedded here so that you can use that, too. This is going to give you the option to check out exact code at different states. So let me show you an example. If we wanted to check out the exact code state at the beginning of, let's say chapter four, video two, what we could do is run git check out O4_O2b, and then this is going to go to that state. So it will have the react project at the beginning of that video. Same goes for, say, git checkout 04_02e. If you want to jump forward at any moment you can. So once you're in that directory, you can move to the react project for each one of these. CD React project. You can run an NPMI or NPM install. This is going to install those dependencies in the background so that you can actually run your project. All right, so this is the command that you'll run to make everything work in code spaces, and then you can also take a look at the files and make your edits right here in the browser. Nice. So that should be everything you really need to do. Now that you know how to work with code spaces, you can follow along with me as we write these apps with React.