DevOps and your career
- As we move into the final part of the course, we want to talk with you about how this plays into your own career. - Remember, properly used DevOps isn't a job title. It's a mindset and a suite of practices to use to make a technology organization get better results. As a result, you don't have to be planning on taking a job that's DevOps specific to benefit from it, - Right, if you're a developer, you can just go be a developer, but with better understanding of how to build reliable applications, structure your build and testing, and ensure it's instrumented for good observability and operation in a production environment. You also understand how to align your efforts along the value stream and keep the three ways of DevOps in mind to get the best results. - If you're a system or IT administrator, you may have had your job renamed to DevOps Engineer Victory, I kid, but while technically there should be just DevOps, QA, security, and other kinds of engineers that are all practicing DevOps together, it got popular early on to just rename Ops to DevOps, to mark that you're using a newfangled DevOps approach instead of the old siloed manual approach. - [Instructor 1] So if you're a sys admin, in addition to your systems and networking administration skills, now you understand that you should be building systems using infrastructure as code, and that designing them for reliability is important. You probably are also implementing observability platforms and writing runbook automation. - In a small enough shop, you may perform the infrastructures code, continuous delivery, and site reliability engineering work all-in-one. We salute you all-in-one DevOps engineer. But remember, beyond the technical, you also know that focusing on collaboration, automation, measurement and sharing is what separates you from the ineffective IT departments. - There are some more specialized roles out there that focus on DevOps specific work. Automation experts or, more recently, platform engineers are a type of developer who is aware of infrastructure and creates automation around system and business outcomes. - [Instructor 2] Build engineers or, more recently, release managers are specialists both in the continuous deployment pipeline creation and maintenance, and also managing the packaging and rollout of releases, which involves a lot of business communication. - [Instructor 1] And site reliability engineers, or SREs, is the most common term for the people performing the runtime support part of DevOps, observing, managing, and fixing all the runtime systems. - Really large orgs will even have people that specialize in just one sub part of these. An incident manager who only does incident command for incidents or an application performance management team who only works on super deep dive observability of app performance. - If you're a security engineer, then understanding and participating in DevOps makes you a DevSecOps engineer. - Of course, you don't have to be planning to work in DevOps per se to benefit from understanding it. After the first version of this course shift, I had a young man approach me at a tech conference. He told me that he had gotten out of the army and was trying to get into tech, and taking our course helped him get a sales job with a container security company, much respect. - And that's the kind of thing we love to hear. Sales, marketing, product managers, and executives have all begun to understand the benefits that DevOps can bring and how to interact with the DevOps ecosystem. I personally went from DevOps engineer to tech marketing to now I'm founding my own startup. I ask you to consider the power a thoughtful DevOps approach can have on your career. Jot down what your goal is and what you would like to be doing in six months, one year, and in five years. In the Q&A section of the course, can you share your career journey and future plans so we can all learn from each other?