DevOps learning resources
- Now we'll give you a lightning round of learning resources you can use to learn even more about DevOps. Don't worry, you don't need to write them all down or frantically screenshot us, unless you really want to, that is. Blue steel. - We provided a course handout that has all the resources we mentioned throughout the entire course. It's in the exercise files available under the Overview tab on the course page. Want in-depth information on these subjects? Well, they conceal information like that in books. Here's our top 10 DevOps book list. The first three, DevOps Handbook, Accelerate, and the Phoenix Project, are the best all around reads on DevOps. The next three are the canonical works on our practice areas like Continuous Delivery, the Site Reliability Engineering Book, and Infrastructure as Code. Release It! is a great developer side view, and The Practice of Cloud System Administration is an op upside primer on how to actually build resilient, scalable apps and systems. I'll round out the top 10 list with Visible Ops and Lean Software Development, which are key works we mentioned in our process practice area. - And of course for the most recent hotness, there are a bunch of great online sources for DevOps info. These weekly newsletters are a great summary of the most notable developments in their area. There are many useful websites and we list a bunch in the course handout, but two specific shout outs. Martin Fowler writes expert articles on agile software development and DevOps, and Julia Evans writes great zines and comics, illustrating tough technical topics in an easy to understand format. - You know, we often get asked a lot about certifications. Because DevOps is such an expansive field, many of the certifications you'll find are specific to a technology. AWS Cloud certifications, HashiCorp certifications on their specific technologies, and Kubernetes, or cloud native certifications, are the ones that, you know, I most commonly see. - The DevOps Institute does have some more sweeping DevOps certifications. And there are DevOps boot camps, some run by actual universities. Caltech, for example. - Also, if you take all the DevOps foundations courses here in the library, you can tell people that I consider you DevOps certified. - One of our favorite ways to learn though has been by meeting other practitioners at conferences and local user groups. Events were a huge accelerant to our learning of DevOps when we were getting started. The most polished one is the DevOps Enterprise Summit, which Gene Kim puts on in both the US and Europe every year. - Big conferences can be too expensive and far away for many people, but there's a solution for that. DevOpsDays is a set of distributed local events that are held in many cities around the world, usually a couple days in length and at very low ticket prices. - In 2023, there were more than 50 DevOpsDays community events all over the globe, from Fortaleza, to Vilnius, to Taipei, to Cairo, to Bengaluru. DevOps started at DevOpsDays Ghent in 2009, and James and I organized DevOpsDays Austin for 10 years. - Yeah, and if you just can't get out in person, we recommend the all Day DevOps online conference. It's been going on for many years now. It runs for 24 straight hours to include everyone around the globe. - That's a lot of information. Start with these resources and you should become well equipped to go out and find more good ones on your own.