Your personal DevOps journey
- You've built a solid DevOps foundation here with us, and we're glad you trusted Ernest and I to be your guides. - For sure. Our goal was to expose you to the basics of understanding DevOps, and as you can see by how much ground we've covered, it's a huge domain with many subspecialties. - Okay, but what do you do now? Where do you go from here? - I do want to start by saying that experience is the best teacher, and remember that continuous learning using the third way of DevOps combines hands-on practice with frequent feedback loops. Wrestling with the tech yourself will teach you. - What you want to learn next depends on your target role and where you are now. Maybe you're already a techie of one type or another. Maybe you're new to tech and looking for a career in DevOps, or maybe you just want to know how to interact effectively with technical professionals. - [Ernest] I'd suggest devising a learning path for yourself, suited to your current skills and where you want to be. If you want to be an SRE or an automation developer or a release engineer or a technical marketer, you'll want a different amount of depth in those technologies. - Operating systems, programming languages, cloud and containerization. They're all the basic technical skills you need to know as table stakes, and then there's a wide array of specific technologies to learn inside of each of the DevOps practice areas that we've introduced in the course. - And speaking of the course, you're in luck. Since we did the first version of DevOps Foundations back in 2016, we and some of our other colleagues have developed a whole curriculum of additional courses here in the library. We have drill down courses for each of the major practice areas. - Yeah, there is a course on Lean and Agile where you'll find great tips on getting to faster flow states, and one on visible ops change control. - We have a course on infrastructure as code that applies the concepts and shows how to get it done with hands-on technical examples. - Okay, and maybe CICD is of interest to you. In that course, we show hands-on examples and cover common missteps and how to fix them. - If you're heading the site reliability engineering direction, the SRE course is where you want to head next. - And if you're into security, I have a couple courses in the library around automated security testing and building a DevSecOps pipeline. - And then we have advanced courses to dive deeper into technical areas within the practice areas. For example, I have a course on observability and ones on incident management and incident response. - Ernest, that's all great but what if your area is management or leading a DevOps initiative or transformation? - That's a good point. There hasn't been a lot of great content for leaders in DevOps, so James and I created a DevOps management course that digs into all the unique challenges a leader faces and the practices needed to deal with them. - And if you get stuck or you find yourself dropped into an organization where people say, "DevOps doesn't work here," or "We tried DevOps and it failed," then I'd encourage you to check out our course on DevOps anti-patterns. - We don't just point out problems. We also provide ways to combat some of the most common issues for DevOps implementations, so you can be a DevOps hero and not an anti-hero. All right, hopefully that's enough content to keep you busy for a while. James and I wish you the best on your DevOps journey, and we hope to meet you sometime. - We love to learn from other DevOps professionals. Feel free to ask questions or give us your thoughts in the course Q&A and follow us on LinkedIn to stay in touch with what we have coming out next.