DevOps process building block: Agile
- Now let's dig into the process side of DevOps. The first process framework that DevOps is rooted in is called Agile. Time for some history. - Okay. Patrick Deis and Andrew Clay Schaeffer were at the Agile 2008 conference in Toronto. When Andrew proposed an open discussion on Agile infrastructure, Patrick was the only person to show up. - After they talked, Andrew presented on Agile infrastructure at the Velocity Conference the very next year. - Then later in 2009, Patrick started a new small conference in his hometown of Int Belgium. He called the conference, DevOps Stays, effectively coining the term "DevOps" and starting the DevOps movement. - You might be familiar with Agile already. The manifesto for Agile software development was written in February of 2001 by a group of software developers, they were dissatisfied with the current state of software development. - [James] Yeah, they felt that the current approach to improving software quality was just layering more and more process into the software development lifecycle, with the theory that more process and control would make for better solutions. But often the outcome was the opposite. - Here, let me show you a classic software development lifecycle or SDLC for short. It applies to most tech projects, even if you're not writing code. To create a technical solution, first you figure out the requirements, then you use those to create a design. You implement the design and then test it to make sure it works. Then, you deploy it for your end users and maintain it. Makes sense, yeah? - Yeah. Well, the previous approach to software development is called Waterfall, because it flows down from stage to stage. First, you get all the requirements and design completely done and documented. Then you throw them over the wall to development, who codes it, and then they throw their code over the wall to QA to test, who then throws it over the wall to whoever does release engineering to deploy, and then if it's a service, it gets thrown over the wall to operations to maintain. So you lose context and quality at every step, and once you get feedback later in the process, it's often too late to do anything about it. This leads to rules and contracts and finger pointing. Everyone trying to make sure their team's step is set up for success. - If that sounds painful, it is. In Agile development, you perform the same steps, but in small iterations. Instead of trying to complete each phase fully upfront, you iterate through the entire process again and again, adding a piece at a time. Then you use active collaboration between the different teams in the SDLC, including even end users around frequent interim deliverables of working software. Each iteration gets you feedback to use in the next iteration. This can quickly generate solutions that better address customer needs with fewer lingering quality problems. - [James] And Agile has proven its benefits. Version one's 10th annual State of Agile survey reports that 85% of Agile teams have seen increased productivity and 80% report faster time to market. - Critics of Agile assume that since it's faster and more collaborative, it must be sloppy and random. - Yeah. But the opposite's true. Agile teams report better delivery time predictability in 81% of cases, and enhanced software quality in 79% of cases. Teamwork... - Makes the dream work. - [James] If you read the principles in the Agile manifesto though, you'll see what's missing, any mention of operations. - Exactly, James. Agile talks about working software, but it wasn't customary to bring system administrators into the product team. But as software has become mostly service-based, operations is now a crucial part of the process. - It also doesn't talk about the systems part of the equation, like building infrastructure, deploying applications, and monitoring and maintaining them. - In fact, in the beginning, Agile was seen as a threat by the infrastructure side of the house and IT organizations, which was us back in the early 2000s. The development teams we worked with started doing Agile and iterating, and we had trouble adapting to that new cadence of work. But a friendly development manager sat down with me and explained how it worked and why, and I was so convinced that I tried it out myself with my operations team, and it worked great. - [James] So is DevOps exactly the same thing as Agile? - No. You can practice DevOps without Agile and vice versa. But it can, and frankly probably should be implemented as an extension of Agile for best results. - Yep, that's right. Agile's a whole field all to itself. The LinkedIn Learning Library has a large variety of courses that can help you learn more about Agile. In fact, there's another course in the DevOps Foundation series specifically about lean and Agile. We've provided links for you in the course exercise files.