DevOps process building block: Lean
- Let's talk about the second process building block of DevOps. But wait, does the word process strike fear into your heart? Are you worried that once we have three building blocks worth of process under our belt, you won't be able to get anything done for all the process binding you? Well, luckily, we're going to talk about Lean, and part of its goal is to get rid of all the useless processes. Nice! Lean is a systematic process for eliminating waste. It was originally devised in the manufacturing world by W. Edwards Deming and Taiichi Ohno's Toyota Production System. It revolutionized the Japanese industrial economy after World War II and later made its way back over here to the US. It was quickly applied to product development as well. A popular adaptation of this is found in Eric Ries' book, "Lean Startup." In the book, he proposes the build, measure, learn loop as a variation of the usual Kaizen plan, do, check, act cycle. You focus on delivering a minimum viable product to customers, get their feedback, and iterate from there instead of trying to analyze what the perfect product would have upfront. Then, tech got into the act. Mary and Tom Poppendieck's 2003 book, "Lean Software Development: An Agile Toolkit," famously adapted these Lean techniques to software development. They identified seven principles of Lean that apply to software. Similar to the just-in-time credo of Lean manufacturing and aligned with the Agile idea of being flexible, you try to move fast, but delay decisions and enhance feedback loops and group context. Building quality in is an important precept and will inform the approaches to continuous integration and testing that you'll hear about later in the course. Let's talk about waste. The fundamental philosophy of Lean is about recognizing which activities you and your organization perform that add value to the product or service you produce, and which don't. Activities that don't add value are called waste. Lean recognizes three major types of waste, all given Japanese names: muda, muri, and mura. Muda is the major form of waste and it comes in two types. Type one: activities that don't add value to the end result, but are necessary for some reason. And type two: just plain unnecessary effort that's not helping anybody. Mura is waste due to irregular flow, leading to delays and wait times. And muri is waste from overburdening, leading to fatigue and breakdowns. Based on these, the Poppendiecks define seven primary wastes that are endemic in software development. This includes bugs and delays, but it also includes spending effort on features that aren't needed. I've added a bonus eighth waste: management activities. Hey, wait, I am in management. But yeah, some of the things I have to have people do, like fill out their time cards, doesn't do anything to make a better solution for our clients. Understanding that that is muda type one waste reminds me to take as little time as possible on activities like that and automate them away where we can. There are a variety of techniques that go along with Lean. Kaizen is one, which we discussed back in the DevOps principles section. Another is value stream mapping, where you analyze the entire pathway of value creation and understand what value is added where, how long it takes, and where waste resides in that pathway. In Lean product development, that value stream is referred to as concept to cash: the entire pathway from the idea to its realization, including all the production and distribution required to get it to customers. Lean also talks about visual management of work, like with a Kanban board, which is a simple method of putting pieces of work in a visible place to see them go through the phases of completion. Post-it notes on a whiteboard works fine, but there's also software tools. Here's the Trello board that we use to develop this course. And implementing work-in-progress limits to restrict how many things you can start, but not finish at a time to reduce waste. DevOps was only indirectly influenced by Lean when it started, but it didn't take long for the ideas and their relevance to what DevOps was trying to accomplish was discovered. In fact, Jez Humble proposed the modification of the CAMS set of DevOps principles to CALMS to include Lean, and John Willis agreed with 'em so much that he ended up writing a book on Deming. It's also a formative part of the three ways of DevOps. Lean is an important part of successful DevOps implementations. The Google DevOps Research and Assessment Team has found that a variety of Lean management and Lean product development techniques are statistically significant in predicting software delivery, operational and organizational performance. Later in the discussion about our DevOps practice areas, you'll see traces of these Lean concepts from time to time. As you figured out by now, I could go on for a while about Lean, and in fact, I do. Download the course handout in the exercise file section of this course. It contains links to my DevOps foundation's Lean and Agile course here in the library, as well as all the books and resources mentioned in this video you can use to learn more about Lean.