DevOps process building block: Visible ops change control
- Welcome back to our third and final process building block, change control, the Visible Ops way. Change is the single biggest cause of issues in a technical environment. Services sometimes break all on their own, but 80% of the time, outages are caused by a change someone is making intended to improve, patch, or upgrade a piece of the system that goes wrong. An obvious way to reduce this risk is to have some kind of control over your changes. Review them, test them, and schedule their rollout. This is where IT Service Management or ITSM comes in. ITSM came from the realization that delivering and supporting IT services was as important as developing them. It was introduced back in the 1980's as early IT shops scaled up and realized you needed some kind of process to hold back all the chaos. ITSM is a concept that's been implemented by a number of frameworks, including the Microsoft Operations Framework, COBIT, ISO 20000, and even Six Sigma. But the most popular by far is ITIL, the IT Infrastructure Library, now it's in fourth major version. It attempts to be a comprehensive process framework for everything from project management to service level management, to release management to wow, 34 different areas. Now, these are all good areas to consider but ITIL implementations tend to create very heavy handed slow processes. For change management in particular, the focus is on extensive write-ups of every single change and then sending those write-ups to a committee, called the Change Advisory Board, lovingly known as the tab, to allow or deny. Sounds fun, right? With the number of changes that need to happen in modern technical organizations, this approach is incredibly slow and puts approval decisions for changes with those least qualified to make them. What does some counsel of upper managers somewhere really know about the details and risks of a specific technical change? And of course, the ITIL reaction to any change going wrong is to add more process and delay because surely that will fix the problem. Into this sad state of affairs, steps our hero, Gene Kim. Gene, one of the authors, of the security protection tool, Tripwire, was studying high performing IT organizations to figure out what made them successful, like one does for their own personal entertainment. He, Kevin Bear and Gene Spafford, published their findings in 2004 in a book called, The Visible Ops Handbook, Implementing ITILin 4 Practical and Auditable Steps. Remember, ITIL itself, is five books spanning more than 2000 pages, yet Visible Ops is only 112 pages long. What? It laid out the primary factors that made a real difference to delivery, security, and efficiency. And the short story is that it's all about change control, but lightweight, fast, scalable, repeatable change control. Gene of course went on to create the three ways of DevOps and write a variety of books on DevOps and how to use lightweight change control to improve security and compliance audits. Our friends at the Google DevOps Research and Assessment Group have done further research on this, and yes indeed, streamline change approval processes contribute to higher performance and lower levels of burnout and increase psychological safety among people in an organization. So, what does this kind of lightweight change control look like? Well, first, every change does need to be reviewed and approved and documented. You do need a process and you need everyone to understand it and follow it. But for most changes, the most effective review is a peer review by another technologist close to the team at hand. Changes to systems that are known to be fragile or changes that people know have far ranging impact, they're escalated to cross-functional people for approval, while the vast bulk of less risky changes can flow more smoothly down the value stream. So, like installing a new wireless access point, is much less risky than replacing a core campus router. Do light reviews for the former and more detailed review for the latter. Second, changes should be kept as small as possible. Individual changes are easier to review and if an error does end up happening, rolling out one small change at a time instead of a huge batch of hundreds of changes during a release, makes it much easier to find and to fix. Third, changes should be tested as soon as possible, ideally by using a continuous integration system with automated testing, so each individual change has objective validation. And the peer reviewed checks that that testing happened. Things like security safeguards can be implemented as part of the development platform as well, and automatically performed early in the process instead of late. And that's the Visible Ops change control, along with lean and agile, that provides you with a solid understanding of the process foundations of DevOps. Now, if you want to know more, Earnest has a course here in the LinkedIn learning library, called, IT Service Management Foundations Change Management. It walks through setting up a lightweight change control process in detail.