Designing performant apps with React Server Components
- [Instructor] Well, we did it. We built a couple different React applications first using Vites and second using Next.js to introduce the fundamentals of the React library. Now from here, there are a couple different directions that you can go in, depending on what you most enjoy and what your work requirements are. So I would definitely check out more on Next.js data storage options. So this would probably involve another tool on top of Next.js, but learning to store data in databases, REST APIs, even GraphQL APIs, all are different next steps that you can take as you're starting to build out your apps. I would also recommend learning more about React server components. There are a lot of cool things coming out in this world of React, not necessarily just for Next.js, but all over the place for really thinking about how to make our applications as performant as possible. And speaking of that, we can talk about Next.js caching in more detail as well. The Next.js documentation is a great place to keep your eye out for all of these things. If you're looking for guides on testing, authentication, deployment, this can all be found here in the Next.js documentation. I want to thank you so much for being part of this journey with me. The world of React has changed a ton since it was introduced in 2013, but the future is very bright for continuing to build all of our applications using the library and using all of the tools that are part of the ecosystem.